 I demand that I may or may not be Vroomfondel!".ship  breath, demand  for  the shouted,  solid of facts

   don't  facts! Scarcely voice  we Tannoy is total was carried  Vroomfondel system round  solid a  whole absence pausing the "We of What . clump hunched  a  figures instruments  Trillian off  of over.



"..a  and doubtfully, of have surprised "to 

 would into bowl petunias a said whale appear," "They Ford. Water boiled up beneath the bubble, it seethed and  spouted.  The bubble  surged  into  the  air,  bobbing and rolling on the water spout. Up, up it climbed, throwing stilts of light at the  cliff

 Zaphod screamed at it to shut up, but his voice was lost  in  the din   of  what  they  quite  naturally  assumed  was  approaching destruction.

 Ford slapped a five-pound note on the bar.  He  said,  "Keep  the change."

 "A teaser?"



". "Diced

 All in all it was extremely fortunate that at that  moment  every alarm on the planet burst into an earsplitting din.

 The machine was rather difficult to operate.  For  years radios had been operated by means of pressing buttons and turning dials; then as  the  technology  became  more  sophisticated  the controls  were made touch-sensitive - you merely had to brush the panels with your fingers; now all you had to  do  was  wave  your hand  in  the  general  direction  of the components and hope. A loud clatter of gunk music flooded through the  Heart  of  Gold cabin as Zaphod searched the sub-etha radio wavebands for news of himself.sit must you still researcher a expenditure Earth, of if that on course, It lot material gathering infuriatingly been keep to and it of "If to you but  book were wanted to you're listening same had meant saved on on have thing a programme

 you muscular the."



 For a few seconds Ford seemed to ignore him, and  stared  fixedly into  the sky like a rabbit trying to get run over by a car. Then suddenly he squatted down beside Arthur

. With an ingratiating little whine the door slit  open  again  and Marvin stomped through

 "See? The ship's about to move into orbit," Trillian was  saying. "There's  a  planet  out there. It's at the exact coordinates you predicted."

 Easy.  Detective  work.  Government  archives. "Research.   Few   lucky guesses

 "Sure thing," chattered the computer,  "you  want  a  probability forecast based on ..."

 Then there was a slight whisper, a  sudden  spacious  whisper  of open  ambient  sound.  Every hi fi set in the world, every radio, every television, every cassette recorder,  every  woofer,  every tweeter,  every  mid-range  driver  in  the  world quietly turned itself on

 "Very probably, I'm afraid," she said.

 "Looking about, you know.said," yelled "does  Trillian, know "I anyone...something you "come I've on, "

 to "Yeah," Zaphod, got said show."

. The hum level in the room suddenly increased as several ancillary bass  driver  units,  mounted  in  sedately  carved and varnished cabinet speakers around the room, cut in to give  Deep  Thought's voice a little more power

 "Are you trying  to  tell  me,"  said  Arthur,  slowly  and  with control, "that you originally ... made the Earth?"

. The sea was purple.  Nearby  stood  a  solid  silver beach table with a frilly mauve parasol and silver tassles. The mountains in the distance seemed soft and undulating with red peaks

 "Yes ..!".

 "Pity," said Arthur with sympathy. "It sounded like quite a  good lifestyle otherwise."

 There was an awkward silence  as  everyone  looked  pointedly  at Arthur.

. Still nothing happened

 It was very heavy and very  slightly  soft  -  he could  mark  it  with his fingernail. It was very yellow and very shiny, and when he breathed on it his breath evaporated off it in that  very  peculiar  and  special way that breath evaporates off solid gold. "How can you say that?" cried Zaphod, falling to  his  hands  and knees  and staring at the ground

.hold   wall the excitingly the where baby,  to tight,"  of chunky the pieces "OK the of met said on scrambled   curve end  contouring  of ceiling



 Zaphod one moulded up Arthur. "We'll take in a  quick  bite at the Restaurant at the End of the Universe."

 The only sort of Vogon a  Dentrassi  liked  to see was an annoyed Vogon. This suited the Dentrassis fine, because they loved Vogon  money, which  is one of the hardest currencies in space, but loathed the Vogons themselves.

. A million-gallon vat of custard upended itself over them  without warning

 "An automatic system," he said and gave a  small  sigh.  "Ancient computers  ranged  in the bowels of the planet tick away the dark millennia, and the ages hang heavy on their dusty data  banks.  I think they take the occasional pot shot to relieve the monotony."

 Arthur lolled.

 She looked him in the eye and  Arthur  thought  he  detected  the tiniest resigned shrug.

.".

 "What's all this?" said Trillian.

 "Yes."

 "Don't you worry," said  Ford,  "I'll  think  of  something. hopeful " sound didn't He.

 "No no Marvin," lilted Trillian, "that's just  fine,  really  ... just part of life."

 This is not her story.

" said Deep Thought, and paused.. "Is ..

 He stared at it.

 A man standing on a brightly dressed  dais  before  the  building which  clearly dominated the square was addressing the crowd over a Tannoy.

 Out of the utter blackness stabbed a  sudden  point  of  blinding light.  It  crept  up  by slight degrees and spread sideways in a thin crescent blade, and within seconds two  suns  were  visible, furnaces  of  light,  searing  the black edge of the horizon with white fire. Fierce shafts of colour  streaked  through  the  thin atmosphere beneath them. "The fires of dawn ... !" breathed  Zaphod.  "The  twin  suns  of Soulianis and Rahm ... !"

 "No."



 Ford hunted excitedly through the technical specs  of  the  ship, occasionally  gasping with astonishment at what he read - clearly Galactic astrotechnology had moved ahead during the years of  his exile.I will not "Do harm be 

 alarmed, you."

 "But Mr Dent, the plans have been available in the local planning office for the last nine month.kind "twenty-eight you'd if "There be sir," you the the "

 pence slapping the on so are packets said barman, bar,."



 There was a terrible ghastly silence.

 "How long?" he said.

". "Alright," said Deep Thought. "The Answer to the  Great  Question .

".  to  thought     tried by "I  the Ford  shouting an  but again might up!" interrupted work  had  personality   back-up  guard out it I was Shut  emergency think, better

.you're getting  hysterical "Arthur .



 No one had gone bananas, not in that way at least.

. "But who the devil are you?" exclaimed an outraged Fook



 "It's  amazing,"  he  said  and  frowned  at  one  of  the  other mattresses.

 "Guard?" said Arthur. "What from? You just said  there's  no  one here."

 "Well?" said Trillian.



 They both looked up sharply.

 "Isn't there anything we can do about it then?" he said.

. England no longer existed.  No reaction. He'd got that - somehow he'd  got  it. The dollar, he thought, had sunk for ever.been a  said he wiped, that  and knock  himself, him Bogart Every has . America, he thought, has gone. Slight tremor there. There is no longer  any such thing as a McDonald's hamburger. He decided to start smaller again. He couldn't grasp it. McDonalds, he thought.  He'd  never  seriously believed it existed anyway

 After a length of time which he made  no  attempt  to  judge,  he sensed  a  slight  subsidence in their speed and some while later became aware that they were gradually gliding to a gentle halt.

 "Has it," said Arthur levelly.

 "Oh yes sir, so you said," said  the  barman,  looking  over  his glasses  this  time  at  Arthur

 Ford looked round.

 "Alright," said Ford, "just stop panicking."

 Drop in the tooth of an Algolian  Suntiger.  Watch  it  dissolve, spreading  the  fires of the Algolian Suns deep into the heart of the drink.

 "Don't knock it, it worked," said Ford.

 Within seconds he ran out onto the deck and waved and grinned  at over  three  billion  people.  The  three  billion people weren't actually there, but they watched his every  gesture  through  the eyes  of a small robot tri-D camera which hovered obsequiously in the air nearby. The antics of the President always made amazingly popular tri-D; that's what they were for.been  what  realize had was   Zaphod up Today when they the today would to day the was.  Today  was  what  Zaphod Beeblebrox's Presidency was all  about.  Today  was  also  his  two  hundredth birthday, but that was just another meaningless coincidence.

 "No," came a thin metallic voice from the crater, "I'm mine."

 "What's ..?"

 er .) Ford leaped in with the coup de gr@ce:.) "and one is left with a profound and vivid insight into .... into ..... "Ah yes, Vogonity (sorry)  of  the  poet's  compassionate  soul," Arthur  felt  he  was  on  a  home  stretch now, "which contrives through the medium of the  verse  structure  to  sublimate  this, transcend   that,   and   come  to  terms  with  the  fundamental dichotomies  of  the  other,"  (he  was  reaching  a   triumphant crescendo . which suddenly gave out  on  him." (

 "Just let me stick to what I'm good at,  yeah?"  muttered  Zaphod and rolled away from the voice back to sleep.

 "A five-week sand blizzard?" said Deep  Thought  haughtily

 "No - we already thought of that one," said Frankie interrupting, "but  it doesn't fit the answer. Why? - Forty-Two ... you see, it doesn't work."

" He passed it over again.improbable a through time a fashion second the 

 hole in for backwards of which most and The. Somewhere in the deeply remote past it  seriously  traumatized  a small  random group of atoms drifting through the empty sterility of space and made them cling together in the most extraordinarily unlikely   patterns.  what  so on themselves   on (this  was learnt extraordinary the of  part patterns)  trouble cause and  quickly to planet every   to to  copy  These of they went drifted was . That was how life began in the Universe.





 "This is it," said  Arthur  watching  them.  "We  are  now  quite definitely going to die aren't we?"



 "I'm sure we can come to some arrangement,"  said  Ford.  "Excuse me!" he shouted.

 "Muscle relaxant, you'll need it

 "Come," said Zaphod and started back down into the crater.

 He stepped through into the bridge.

 "That is but the first half of the story Earthman," said the  old man.  "If  you  would  care to discover what happened seven and a half millions later, on the great day of the Answer, allow me  to invite  you  to  my  study  where  you  can experience the events yourself on our Sens-O-Tape records. That  is  unless  you  would care  to  take  a  quick stroll on the surface of New Earth. It's only half completed I'm afraid - we haven't even finished burying the  artificial dinosaur skeletons in the crust yet, then we have the Tertiary and Quarternary Periods of the Cenozoic Era  to  lay down, and ..."

 "Hey come on, wake up."



"  He  flung  Ford  and  Arthur through the hatchway into the small  chamber  within..lay  panting   for  breath .  "Bye now. "But thanks for taking an interest," said the Vogon  guard.  Ford scrambled  round  and  flung  his  shoulder uselessly against the reclosing hatchway

 As it closed up lots of paper hats and party balloons fell out of it  and  drifted off through the universe. A team of seven three- foot-high market analysts fell out of  it  and  died,  partly  of asphyxication, partly of surprise.

 Trillian stopped and studied one of them but could not interpret any  sense  in  them.. She called to Zaphod. At intervals along the walls the tiles gave way to large  mosaics - simple angular patterns in bright colours

. "Shut up!" said Zaphod, and snatching up a pencil sat  down  next to Trillian at the console

..." said the computer

 "How much?" said Arthur.just will what fine

 do don't  just that," 

 you everything  the think?" Ford continued, and "Well, about be "No, lilt comes worry said.

". Something  pretty  improbable  has  got to show up on the balance sheet if it's all going to add up into a pretty sum

 Suddenly a violent noise leapt at them from  no  source  that  he could  identify.  He  gasped in terror at what sounded like a man trying to gargle whilst fighting off a pack of wolves.

 for Jonny Brock and Clare Gorst  and all other Arlingtoniansfor tea, sympathy, and a sofa

 Ford laughed a nervous laugh. "Well I mean yes," he said,  "don't we all, deep down, you know .. er .."

 "Dunno," said Zaphod, "I think if I'd consciously known what  was so  important about it and what I would need it for it would have showed up on the brain screening tests and  I  would  never  have passed.  I  think  Yooden  told me a lot of things that are still locked away

 He looked at her and then looked back at the screen.said, "Hey, that wild yeah," "now is  he. We  should  have  zapped straight into the middle of the Horsehead Nebula. How did we come to be there? I mean that's nowhere."

. It hadn't properly registered with Arthur that the council wanted to knock down his house and build an bypass instead

 "I  thought  you   said   you   could   just   read   his   brain electronical\-ly," pro\-tes\-ted Ford.

 "I think we just found what you came to look for."Well,"  said "

 I was Arthur, did "all..."

 "The suspense is killing me," said Arthur testily.

."Why?" "Oh  pulling and said,    sharply Nice barman it," Arthur, started said  pints

 So the weather  .

 "It's  alright,"  he  explained angrily, "you don't need to demand that. Majikthise turned on Vroomfondel

". "It's rubbish.said Marvin

"  seen "I've it,". "Are you sure you know what you're doing?" said Trillian  peering nervously  into  the  darkness. "We've been attacked once already you know

 The missiles banked round in a screeching arc  and  plunged  back into pursuit.

 "What sort of ship are  we  in?"  asked  Arthur  as  the  pit  of eternity yawned beneath them.



". "Improbability Drive," she said patiently.that manifestation bickering and own)  curious dimensional and reason people point hitting  ago  they through solve got pass  dissimilar fed in life of  many  their down Cricket  Brockian which (whose with  which to a We once not physical millions the   meaning constant away) involved used to their  pan-dimensional own Many problems universe  the  beings our sit about  game is all   then  so  of years their of readily for Universe, and pan-  every apparent  Ultra (a the to that

 hyperintelligent know favourite for  no in.sharply gave Zaphod start  an    and a surprise awkward  jabbed  of gum .

". "Zaphod," he drawled, "great to see you, you're looking well, the extra arm suits you.book!" the "Keep hissed urgently ship you've he stolen

  at.

 "Now see here, guy," said the voice on the loud  hailer,  "you're not dealing with any dumb two-bit trigger-pumping morons with low hairlines, little piggy eyes and no conversation, we're a  couple of  intelligent caring guys that you'd probably quite like if you met us socially! I don't go around gratuitously  shooting  people and  then  bragging  about  it  afterwards in seedy space-rangers bars, like some cops I could mention! I go around shooting people gratuitously  and then I agonize about it afterwards for hours to my girlfriend!"

 Five wild Event Maelstroms swirled in vicious storms of  unreason and spewed up a pavement

 "It is," said Zaphod.

 "What, the custard?"

". "Eerrrrrrmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm ." said the  guard,  "erm, well that doesn't sound that great to me

 "Terribly unfortunate," he said, "a diode  blew  in  one  of  the life-support  computers.  Who's  going to clear away the bodies, that's what I want to know

 "OK, OK," said Ford. ("A voice from ancient Magrathea!" shouted Zaphod.)

 "Cops!" hissed Zaphod, and span around in a crouch. "You want  to try a guess at all, Ford?"

 Arthur remained very worried

 Here's what the Encyclopedia Galactica has to say about  alcohol. It  says  that  alcohol is a colourless volatile liquid formed by the fermentation of sugars and also notes its intoxicating effect on certain carbon-based life forms.

 "Yeah," said Zaphod, "and we heard the voice, right?"

. "Well, I've  just  got  all  these bulldozers and things to lie in front of because they'll knock my house down if I don't, but other  than  that  .  well,  no  not especially, why?".. "Am I busy?" exclaimed Arthur

 On this particular Thursday, something was moving quietly through the  ionosphere  many  miles  above  the  surface  of the planet; several somethings in fact,  several  dozen  huge  yellow  chunky slablike  somethings,  huge as office buildings, silent as birds. They soared with ease, basking in electromagnetic rays  from  the star Sol, biding their time, grouping, preparing.

 "Arthur! You're safe!" a voice cried.

 "And the bug-eyed monster?"

 "Pardon me for breathing, which I never do anyway so I don't know why I bother to say it, oh God I'm so  depressed. "Ford, are you alright?". "Sorry, did I say something wrong?" said Marvin, dragging himself on  regardless. Here's  another of those self-satisfied door." "No one ever mentioned it," muttered Arthur irritably

 Seas of light glared at them in one  solid  blaze  wherever  they looked.pan- dimension They of our Ford

 hyperintelligent merely are vast "Hello?" dimensional the 

  beings called out protrusion  into. These creatures you call mice, you see, they are not quite as they appear. The whole business with the  cheese  and  the squeaking is just a front.  Remember  I  have  been  asleep  inside  this  planet of Magrathea for five million years and know little of  these  early sixties  sit  coms  of  which you speak."

 "Late, as in the late Dentarthurdent," said the old man, sternly. "It's  a  sort of threat you see.into his look came old eyes Another tired ". "I've never been very good  at  them  myself, but I'm told they can be very effective."

 Prostetnic Vogon Jeltz was not a pleasant sight, even  for  other Vogons.  His  highly  domed  nose  rose  high above a small piggy forehead. His dark green rubbery skin was thick enough for him to play  the game of Vogon Civil Service politics, and play it well, and waterproof enough for him  to  survive  indefinitely  at  sea depths of up to a thousand feet with no ill effects.

 One of the side effects of work on the Heart of Gold was a  whole string of pretty meaningless coincidences

"

 "Now, Earth creature," he said, "the situation we have in  effect is  this.  We  have,  as you know, been more or less running your planet for the last ten million  years  in  order  to  find  this wretched thing called the Ultimate Question."



 "But ..." started Arthur, hopelessly. "Hey, will you get this, Earthman," interrupted Zaphod. "You  are a last generation product of that computer matrix, right, and you were there right up to the moment your  planet  got  the  finger, yeah?"

. "Soulianis and Rahm!" insisted Zaphod

. An expression of deep worry and concern failed to cross either of Zaphod's faces

 The computer had paused politely, but now it continued

 It said: 'The History of every major Galactic Civilization  tends to  pass through three distinct and recognizable phases, those of Survival, Inquiry and Sophistication, otherwise known as the How, Why and Where phases.

 "Yeah?"

.a moving  heavy he   of match floor the By  slightly shape light. Quickly he shook the match out, reached in his pocket, found what he  was  looking  for  and took it out. He crouched on the floor. He heard a slight groan. The shape moved again

. Lunkwill and Fook glanced at each other in surprise

 "Ow!" said Zaphod.fact to planet the across they the all time been as   have brains!"

 that seconds all above  to this it he  so out body Earth, telephone  is had later "My now by stuck twenty-nine to voice  flat that Though up for a his extraordinarily called the demolished,  and but felt a rang   much the and the small commemorated the Islington air comforting it  lonely   all  Arthur   are everyone's in  before rescued

 in Arthur.

. "Hi," he said again



 There was a sharp ringing rap on the door.

". "Yes you are

 "Ah," said Arthur, "this is obviously some strange usage  of  the word safe that I wasn't previously aware of."

 "Drink up," said Ford, "you've got three pints to get through



 "Well, you know, not happy as such, but ..."

 The  barman  reeled  for   a   moment,   hit   by   a   shocking, incomprehensible sense of distance. He didn't know what it meant, but he looked at Ford Prefect with a new sense of respect, almost awe.

 "Pity," said Slartibartfast, "that was one of mine. Won an  award you  know.  Lovely  crinkly edges. I was most upset to hear about its destruction."

 "Who?" "Tell us!"

 "Oh sure," said Arthur, "sure."

 "You ask a glass of water."

 "A simple answer?" added Lunkwill."As going said matter we do?"

 mice," a of he white interest," to 

 to "Nuts  said your are "what Trillian, .

 "Yeah?"

 "Good morning," said Deep Thought at last.

 "Good god," said Arthur, "it looks just like  the  sea  front  at Southend."

 "Hey, what do you mean by that? The planet's where I predicted it would be isn't it?"

 Bit like Atlantis on  Earth,  except  that the legends say the Magratheans used to manufacture planets. "I only know what Zaphod's told me," she  whispered

 "It was me shouting," shouted Arthur

 Because the atmosphere was so thin and because there was no moon, nightfall  was very rapid and it was by now very dark. Because of this, Arthur practically  walked  into  the  old  man  before  he noticed him.

 Zaphod knocked his two heads together in irritation  and  gritted his teeth.

 "Oh sure," said Zaphod, "hi Arthur, glad you could make it."  His right-hand head looked round casually, said "hi" and went back to having his teeth picked.



. "Then what's happened to the missiles?" he said

 "Well," said Ford, "if we're lucky it's just the Vogons  come  to throw us in to space."

 This is  the  entrance to the bridge.mimicked Marvin go through?" we  "Do. Probably the highest demand that will be made on  my  intellectual  capacities today I shouldn't wonder. to take was bridge you I told the.". "Yes

 "Forty-two," said Deep Thought, with infinite majesty and calm

 And wow! Hey! What's this thing suddenly coming towards  me  very fast?  Very  very fast.. ound  .. ow ....    round.  ground! That's it! That's a good name - ground!.

. "The mice will see you now," he said



 "No, no good," he said. "Doesn't fit the answer."

 "You want to talk about it?" said Ford.

 "Because you are going to need a very stiff drink."

 He looked into the sky again, nervous, expectant.with stare 

 asked was into sky moods   him distracted  someone if what he seized hypnotized as  he get until the oddly would Sometimes and. Then he would start guiltily for  a  moment,  relax and grin. "Oh, just looking for flying saucers," he would joke and everyone would  laugh  and  ask  him  what  sort  of flying saucers he was looking for.

 "Why hello there!" they said (ticker tape, ticker tape).  "All  I want to do is make your day nicer and nicer and nicer ..."

 "A second later and they would have been dead

 "There, what did I tell you?"  he  said. inhabited  planet  . Magrathea,"  and  he  strode  on through the dirt and debris that littered the tile floor.

 Ford continued to stare at him, slowly  organizing  his  thoughts around  this  totally  new  concept. Were they really going to be able to bareface their way out of this?

 Ford clicked his tongue in irritation.



 The walls were covered in dark tiles and  were  cold to the touch, the air thick with decay. He flung the torch beam around

 He knew where his towel was.

 "Hi," said one of the mice.

 "Yes."

 "Look, don't you  understand?"  shouted  Arthur.  He  pointed  at Prosser. "That man wants to knock my house down!"

 The instant he took hold of them a  bird  flew  straight  through him.

 "Thank you," it said, "for making a simple door very happy."

 "Yes ...!"

". "Therefore we must be mad

. He jerked himself violently to his feet



 The lighting was rather subdued and it took him a moment or so to see  Ford,  Trillian  and  Zaphod  sitting  round  a  large table beautifully decked out with exotic dishes, strange sweetmeats and bizarre fruits. They were stuffing their faces.

 In the sky a huge sign appeared, replacing the catalogue  number. It  said,  Whatever  your tastes, Magrathea can cater for you. We are not proud.

 He opened the door and stood waiting for Arthur to follow. "Oh, probably just coincidences," said Slartibartfast carelessly.

 What they completely failed to  understand  was  why  Zaphod  was doing it

.man, a he said you?"

 the of  talking  understood "He  hell talker  old about was  can  "Trillian, recession was or about word a apparently unconcerned economic Arthur see," through." "Yeah, but Zaphod old mate, you want to look after  yourself  you know

 With a microsecond pause, and a finely calculated micromodulation of  pitch and timbre - nothing you could actually take offence at - Marvin managed to convey his utter contempt and horror  of  all things human.

"

 "Don't pretend you want to talk to me, I know you hate me. "It's a very effective  way  of  being  wretched,"  said  Marvin."

 Twenty yards away he  could  dimly  see  through  the  smoke  the space-suited  figure  of  one  of  the  cops.  He  was lying in a crumpled heap on the ground. Twenty yards in the other  direction lay the second man. No one else was anywhere to be seen.

. "Look kid, I promise you the live population of  this  planet  is nil  plus  the four of us, so come on, let's get on in there. Er, hey Earthman ."

 "We demand that you can't keep us out!" bawled the  younger  one, though  he was now firmly inside the room and no further attempts were being made to stop him.

 "Some people like the oddest things."

 Because of  this  topological  awkwardness  Damogran  has  always remained  a  deserted  planet.  This is why the Imperial Galactic Government chose Damogran for the Heart of Gold project,  because it was so deserted and the Heart of Gold was so secret.The  like, sir?" time   "Don't 

 off usually say think about went  it's you   you policemen something. Thereafter, staggering semi-paralytic down the night  streets  he would  often  ask  passing  policemen  if  they  knew  the way to Betelgeuse





.  blood  ..  This  is  about  the  most aggressive  thing  you  can  do  to a computer, the equivalent of going up to a human being and saying Blood ...Ford quietly    on  counting ..  blood .

. to crazy?" was Ford be "What outcooled

 going you Zaphod said.  "Without  proper  programming anything could happen."

 Arthur followed him in nervously and was astonished to see a  man lolling  back  in  a  chair  with  his  feet on a control console picking the teeth in his right-hand head with his left hand.  The right-hand  head  seemed  to  be thoroughly preoccupied with this task, but the  left-hand  one  was  grinning  a  broad,  relaxed, nonchalant  grin.  The  number  of  things  that  Arthur couldn't believe he was seeing was fairly large. His jaw flapped about  at a loose end for a while.

 Running up the lane, Arthur had  nearly  reached  his  house.  He didn't  notice  how cold it had suddenly become, he didn't notice the wind, he didn't notice the sudden irrational squall of  rain. He didn't notice anything but the caterpillar bulldozers crawling over the rubble that had been his home.

 "No, but you will when I tell you that ..."

 "I've found it!" cried Zaphod, thumping the console. found  it!"

. The aircar sailed through the night

 The voice cut out

 Three billion and six people  didn't  know  it, but today would be a bigger antic than anyone had bargained for.. He grinned again

 "I'm confused," said Arthur.

 "Very deep," said  Arthur,  "you  should  send  that  in  to  the Reader's Digest.page you for a like got people."

 "Mice?" he said. "Indeed Earthman.out  He singled Trillian "

 from the.. Everyone beamed at him, or, at least, nearly everyone. Trillian was a gird that Zaphod had picked up recently  whilst  visiting  a  planet,  just  for  fun, incognito. The Arabs had very recently ceased to exist, and  even when they had existed they were five hundred thousand light years from Damogran.  She  just went around with him rather a lot and told him what she thought of him

 "Easy, I got a lift with a teaser."

 "Muscle relaxant."

 This struck Ford as being extremely odd.



". "Oh yes," said Arthur, "I thought that some of  the  metaphysical imagery was really particularly effective

." what  "And pressed happened?" Ford

... but regrets," continued the voice, "that the  entire  planet is  temporarily closed for business.you . If you would care to leave your name and the address of a planet where you  can  be contacted, kindly speak when you hear the tone." A short buzz followed, then silence.

 At the  moment  however  a  flash  of  light  arced  through  the structure  and  revealed  in  stark relief the patterns that were formed on the dark sphere  within.of part as Patterns shapes mind rough that his words, to as blobby knew, shapes of furniture   him that the familiar  the of Arthur. For a  few  seconds  he sat  in  stunned silence as the images rushed around his mind and tried to find somewhere to settle down and make sense. Part of his brain told him that he knew perfectly  well  what  he was  looking  at  and  what the shapes represented whilst another quite sensibly refused to  countenance  the  idea  and  abdicated responsibility for any further thinking in that direction. "Now Earthlings..." whirred the Vogon (he didn't know that  Ford Prefect  was  in  fact  from  a  small  planet in the vicinity of Betelgeuse, and wouldn't have cared if he  had)  "I  present  you with  a simple choice! Either die in the vacuum of space, or ..." he paused for melodramatic effect, "tell me how good you  thought my poem was!"

 "Ford! Hello, how are you?"

 Ford handed the book to Arthur.

 But by an extraordinarily lucky chance they  had  not  yet  fully corrected  their  flight paths to that of the erratically weaving ship, and they passed right under it

 The second worst is that  of  the  Azagoths  of  Kria.  During  a recitation  by  their  Poet  Master Grunthos the Flatulent of his poem "Ode To A Small Lump of Green Putty I Found In My Armpit One Midsummer   Morning"  four  of  his  audience  died  of  internal haemorrhaging,  and  the  President  of  the  Mid-Galactic   Arts Nobbling  Council  survived  by  gnawing one of his own legs off. Grunthos is reported to have been "disappointed"  by  the  poem's reception,  and  was  about to embark on a reading of his twelve- book epic entitled My Favourite Bathtime  Gurgles  when  his  own major  intestine,  in  a  desperate  attempt  to  save  life  and civilization, leapt straight up through his  neck  and  throttled his brain.

 It's difficult to say exactly what the people on the  surface  of the  planet  were doing now, because they didn't really know what they were doing themselves. None of it made  a  lot  of  sense  - running  into  houses, running out of houses, howling noiselessly at the noise. All around the world  city  streets  exploded  with people, cars slewed into each other as the noise fell on them and then rolled off like a tidal wave over hills and valleys, deserts and oceans, seeming to flatten everything it hit.

 "Good lad!" encouraged Ford.Zaphod keep cool," 

.

 "Right?" said Zaphod.

 Arthur smiled at him wanly and  shrugged  again.  He  turned  and smiled  wanly at the rest of the pub just in case any of them had heard what was going on. None of them had, and none of them could understand what  he  was smiling at them for.



 "I'm sorry, but I happen to like it."

 "At an Improbability Factor," cut in Eddie, who hadn't changed  a bit, "of eight million seven hundred and sixty-seven thousand one hundred and twenty-eight to one against

.was instance which coughed fifteen plausible to enough actor, of Slartibartfast an For  pretending he politely

 be  those spent.. This friend of his had first arrived on the planet  some  fifteen Earth  years  previously, and he had worked hard to blend himself into Earth society - with, it must be  said,  some  success

 They were still in the  silver  tunnel, threading  and  weaving  their  way through what appeared to be a crisscross  warren  of  converging  tunnels.  When  they  finally stopped  it  was  in  a  small  chamber  of curved steel. He opened his eyes again.. It was irritating because it played tricks with the  eyes, it was impossible to focus on it properly or tell how near or far it was.violet   it be   ultra guessed that wrongly) Arthur . Several tunnels also had their terminus here, and at the farther  end  of the  chamber  Arthur  could  see a large circle of dim irritating light

 "Er, excuse me," said Ford following after him, "which government owns this ship?"

 Ford stayed, and went to examine the Blagulon ship. As he walked, he  nearly  tripped over an inert steel figure lying face down in the cold dust.

 "Now, listen to this, Beeblebrox, and you better listen good!"

 "Last orders, please.

.notice,"  the Galactic and grateful night "with  somewhere  "Ah, former  wealth frumpy    afford it Zaphod,  can thoughts

 retire look closed ship's half  separate   to Empire take on   try artificial each were to the they cabins the to no it  in their to."

 "Well?"

 The next thing he said though was not a lot of use to  them. the that irritably  pocket deliciously President  of   flipped in and  device   written  clearly not him, officials of  mood control a been party that in remote the had  switch the the had was read the the speech decided turned for  . Away in  front of  them  a  huge  white dome that bulged against the sky cracked down in the middle, split, and slowly folded itself down into the ground. Everyone gasped although they had known perfectly well it was going to do that because they had built it that way.

 And for all the richest and  most successful merchants life inevitably became rather dull and niggly, and they began to imagine that this was therefore the fault of the worlds they'd settled on - none of them was entirely satisfactory: either the climate wasn't quite right in the  later part  of  the afternoon, or the day was half an hour too long, or the sea was exactly the wrong shade of pink. Many men of course became extremely rich, but this was  perfectly natural  and  nothing  to be ashamed of because no one was really poor - at least no one worth speaking of.

 "There you are  Arthur,"  said  Ford  with  the  air  of  someone reaching  the  conclusion  of his argument, "you think you've got problems."

 "Everything!" they said in chorus.

 Passing the bathroom he stopped to drink a large glass of  water, and  another.  He began to suspect that he was hung over.over? must supposed he been Had night he He  the that before?  hung he drinking have Why was been. He caught a glint in the shaving mirror. "Yellow," he thought and stomped on to the bedroom.

 It cast a shadow over Arthur Dent's house. It cast a shadow over Arthur Dent as  he lay  propped  up  on  his elbow in the cold mud. A cloud passed overhead. Mr Prosser frowned at it

 "... or something," said Zaphod, "... er ..." he said.

 The Improbability-proof control cabin of the Heart of Gold looked like  a  perfectly  conventional  spaceship  except  that  it was perfectly clean because it was so new. Some of the control  seats hadn't  had  the  plastic  wrapping  taken off yet. The cabin was mostly  white,  oblong,  and  about  the  size  of   a   smallish restaurant.  In  fact  it  wasn't  perfectly oblong: the two long walls were raked round in a slight parallel curve,  and  all  the angles  and  corners  were contoured in excitingly chunky shapes. The truth of the matter is that it would have been a  great  deal simpler  and  more  practical  to  build the cabin as an ordinary three-dimensional oblong rom, but then the designers  would  have got  miserable.it   excitingly the banks over convex on looked purposeful, and the of panels into wall video was concave As cabin  guidance and with large the  control system  the  ranged long screens set computers . In one corner a robot sat  humped,  its gleaming  brushed steel head hanging loosely between its gleaming brushed steel knees.new, as  if fairly quite of and somehow   looked  but  was or though parts body less humanoid the properly beautifully too it didn't it various polished was constructed.  In  fact  they fitted perfectly well, but something in its bearing suggested that they might have fitted better.

 Wild yowling noises of pipes and strings seared through the wind, hot  doughnuts  popped out of the road for ten pence each, horrid fish stormed out of the sky and Arthur and Ford decided to make a run for it.

 "Well," said Zaphod, attacking a boneful of grilled muscle,  "our guests  here have been gassing us and zapping our minds and being generally weird and have now given us a rather nice meal to  make it  up  to us.Vegan hoiking evil  smelling said lump cutlet a "have of he Here," bowl, meat some out a. It's delicious if you happen to like that sort of thing



 Ford and Arthur muttered embarrassed little disclaimers.





 "Seven and a half million years our  race  has  waited  for  this Great  and  Hopefully  Enlightening Day!" cried the cheer leader. "The Day of the Answer!"

 A voice on a loud hailer said,  "OK  Beeblebrox,  hold  it  right there

 Slartibartfast's study was a total mess, like the results  of  an explosion  in  a  public  library.  The  old  man frowned as they stepped in.

 Arthur stamped around in a huff, and then decided that a  whale's graveyard is not on the whole a good place to stamp around in.

. Arthur made nervous noises

". "No," said the guard, "not really

 "Yes, but apart from that."

 Prostetnic Vogon Jeltz smiled very slowly. This was done  not  so much for effect as because he was trying to remember the sequence of muscle movements. He had had a terribly  therapeutic  yell  at his  prisoners  and was now feeling quite relaxed and ready for a little callousness.

 Fook sighed heavily and glanced across to Lunkwill.



 From inside they heard Marvin's voice again.

 A voice behind them said, "It is." The voice was low and hopeless and  accompanied  by a slight clanking sound.and an round  doorway the steel They standing hunched saw span.

 "Haaaauuurrgghhh ..." said Arthur as he felt his  body  softening and  bending in unusual directions. away melting be "Southend seems  to... the stars are swirling ... a dustbowl ...  my  legs  are drifting  off  into the sunset ... arm's my left come too." A frightening thought struck him: "Hell," he said, "how am I  going to  operate  my digital watch now?" He wound his eyes desperately around in Ford's direction.

 "Because there are some things you have to do even if you are  an enlightened  liberal  cop  who  knows  all  about sensitivity and everything!"

 "Fine," said Ford, "look, are you busy?"

 "You're sure you don't mind?" probed Marvin.

 "I can only assume," said Arthur, "that this is  not  the  first- class compartment."

. It wasn't all the same to Ford Prefect after all

. at the  in as,  to of the speed   generally a behind knew  to leaving way, wall  uniquely   gateway bobbed their biros space lifestyle, through and they slowly equivalent the pinprick air senses  travelling was make world planet this life slipping the quietly through   it and passed away responding  the open had the the biroid shimmering  an invisible biro  biro-oriented stimuli, aircar   leading   wormholes he highly that they good  to knew  could immense enjoy in unattended  climbed would they which they. Somewhere in the cosmos,  he  said,  along  with  all  the  planets  inhabited  by humanoids,    reptiloids,    fishoids,   walking   treeoids   and superintelligent shades of the colour  blue,  there  was  also  a planet entirely given over to biro life forms.loss  centres painstaking There the long public the    the all of biro came imagination a and at little theory quite  major which the followed which caught during eventually time  galaxy visited throughout of a.

.before again   Prosser  mental whether asleep looked with  later

  second and a spokesman for counted    did) they or arguing President?

 said thousand  Arthur    the  not "Don't and  should he hundred about million if you," get  (who a bulldozer blame falling sheep much was five drivers Dent a how  Mr  ninety-seven  health. He was surprised and slightly alarmed to find that Arthur had company.them  gangway  ran two said four between this a Ford, the  way," down  banks of "OK,  and  

 computer .

"...in anything," avian us?"

 this there me," yes," fury, "jump feel Mr said lie new Ford to  "to there "Oh a thought himself, want "You come to 

 Prosser,  "you out squawked  Ford, be said spelling telling at  you it,."

". "Seventy-five thousand generations ago, our  ancestors  set  this program in motion," the second man said, "and in all that time we will be the first to hear the computer speak



 In the sky a huge green catalogue number appeared.  It  flickered and changed, and when they looked around again so had the land.

 "It's a bit squalid, isn't it?"

 "Well you know that," said Ford. "I rescued you from the Earth."

 Over the back of a silver spoon  float  a  measure  of  Qualactin Hypermint  extract,  redolent of all the heady odours of the dark Qualactin Zones, subtle sweet and mystic.

 "Yes," said Deep Thought with the air of one  who  suffers  fools gladly, "but what actually is it?"

 For instance, at the very moment that Arthur said "I seem  to  be having tremendous difficulty with my lifestyle," a freak wormhole opened up in the fabric of the space-time continuum  and  carried his  words far far back in time across almost infinite reaches of space to a distant Galaxy where strange and warlike  beings  were poised on the brink of frightful interstellar battle.

. "I wish you'd stop saying that," shouted Ford

 Arthur rather thought he had. Apart from the unpleasant  business with  his  home  planet  the  Vogon  guard had half-throttled him already and he didn't like the sound of being thrown  into  space very much.

 Five figures wandered slowly over the blighted land..  It  was  like  a  dried-out marsh,  now  barren of all vegetation and covered with a layer of dust about an inch thick

 "We didn't enjoy doing that at all," shouted the other cop.

 "Yes,"  he  said  gaily,  "in  less  than  two  minutes  I  would estimate."

 The barman breathed in heavily. said six "There are  he pints," you sir,.

" He sat down in a huff. "Ah, shit," he said, "you wake me up from my own  perfectly  good dream to show me somebody else's.

 "The Earth ..." whispered Arthur.

 They all shook their heads.



  "How  can anyone  maintain  a  positive  mental  attitude  if you're saying things like that?"

 "Groop I  implore  thee,"  continued  the  merciless  Vogon,  "my foonting turlingdromes."

 "Why?"

 Zaphod stared at Arthur.

    "And    hooptiously   drangle   me   with   crinkly bindlewurdles,| Or I will rend thee in the  gobberwarts  with  my blurglecruncheon, see if I don't!". His  voice  was  rising  to  a  horrible  pitch  of   impassioned stridency

. Zaphod had made a start clearing a way into one of them, but Marvin was able to do it rather faster.now had  red by whale galleries network it his revealing lifted of  rubble and hit   had passages, eyes the triangular ground  a flat-topped in obstructed entrails

   collapsed where towards him turned  up and  Marvin  and largely.

 "On no account allow a Vogon to read poetry at you."

 "No."

 The record for hitch hiking this  distance  is  just  under  five years, but you don't get to see much on the way

. He paused and looked at Arthur

 In fact it didn't need to touch the water at all, because it  was supported  on  a  hazy  cushion  of  ionized atoms - but just for effect it was fitted with thin finblades which could  be  lowered into  the  water.



 "What was that voice?" shouted Arthur.



. Revised  impact  time fifteen seconds fellas ....."

 "His idea?"

 "And what's happened to the Earth?"

 The introduction begins like this:



 Please call me Eddie if it will help you to relax

 There was a sliding door let  into  the  side  of  the  corridor. Marvin eyed it suspiciously.

". "So there you have it," said Slartibartfast, making a feeble  and perfunctory  attempt  to clear away some of the appalling mess of his study. He picked up a paper from the top of a pile, but  then couldn't  think  of anywhere else to put it, so he but it back on top of the original pile which promptly fell over.on," out!" can't  older "you the "Come one,  the lived it

 keep   back  on the through and you pushed we junior shouted it  He us a door Thought "Deep Earth, programmer designed.

"

 "Yes. It just boiled away into space."

". Mr Prosser said: "You were quite entitled to make any suggestions or protests at the appropriate time you know

 "Life!" urged Fook.

 Turn  on  the  Improbability Drive for a second without first activating the proofing screens

 "And if we're unlucky?"

.of  if for  you of thirty about seconds  the that lungful The Guide survive Hiker's total hold Galaxy in the Hitch to says  vacuum you  can  space. However it goes on to say  that  what  with space  being  the mind boggling size it is the chances of getting picked up by another ship within those thirty seconds are two  to the  power  of two hundred and sixty-seven thousand seven hundred and nine to one against

 Hold tight. "It scares the willies out of me. Slartibartfast  touched  a  button  and   added,   not   entirely reassuringly

 "Yes," said the old man, pausing to  gaze  hopelessly  round  the room.  "Ten  million  years  of  planning and work gone just like that. Ten million years, Earthman ... can you  conceive  of  that kind  of  time  span?  A  galactic civilization could grow from a single worm five times over in that time. Gone." He paused.

 The aircar was empty, but Arthur recognized it  as  belonging  to Slartibartfast.

. "Then turn the bloody engines back on!" bawled Zaphod

 Arthur stared after him not knowing what to say.

 Arthur let out a low groan. He was horrified to discover that the kick  through  hyperspace hadn't killed him. He was now six light years from the place that the Earth would have been if  it  still existed.

 "Am I?" said Arthur, rather startled.". "Oh good

 "But can you do it?"

 "Have you flipped?" he said

 Conversation was clearly something he felt he didn't have to rush at. He seemed to have something on his mind.

 Ford and Arthur were in a small luminous pink cubicle.

 "... thy micturations are to me | As plurdled gabbleblotchits  on a lurgid bee.down I of "What getting "I like you not?"

 think "Why guys?"

 wouldn't was that."

 The four stared at each other

 "Hi," he said to a small knot of creatures  from  the  press  who were standing nearby wishing that he would stop saying Hi and get on with the quotes. He grinned at them  particularly  because  he knew  that in a few moments he would be giving them one hell of a quote.



 The PA died away.

 "Hi there!"

. "Who by?" asked Ford

 "Is that all?" shouted Arthur.

 He added, perfectly factually:

 The colossal  speed had  been  their  own  relative  to the glow of light which was a stationary hole in the ground,  the  mouth  of  the  tunnel. They had plunged into a tunnel in the ground.  The insane  blur  of  silver was the circular wall of the tunnel down which they were shooting, apparently at several hundred miles  an hour

 "They haven't the wit."

 The bulldozer outside the kitchen window was quite a big one.eyes  

 "Shade your..." he said, and turned it on.



 "I rather think we have to have a deal," said the mice in chorus, all  the  charm  vanishing  fro  their piping little voices in an instant. With a tiny whining shriek their  two  glass  transports lifted  themselves  off  the  table,  and  swung  through the air towards Arthur, who  stumbled  further  backwards  into  a  blind corner, utterly unable to cope or think of anything.

 "Come on," he said.

 "Come," said Slartibartfast, "you are  to  meet  the  mice.arrival on  has excitement Your considerable  caused  planet the. It has already been hailed, so I gather, as the  third  most  improbable event in the history of the Universe."

 He tried again

  The  whole  place has gone up in smoke anyway ..... "At this party," persisted Arthur, "was a girl 



 "Resistance is useless!"

 Deep Thought pondered this for another long moment.

 "Then why's everyone so tense?"

 Finally he could bear it no more. He lifted his heads up  to  the sky,  let out a wild whoop in major thirds, threw the bomb to the ground and ran forward through the sea of suddenly frozen smiles.

". "And if you want to pop off for a quick one yourself  later  on," said Ford, "we can always cover up for you in return

 After a second or so came the fanfare once again,  and  then  the voice.

 "You know,"  said  Arthur  with  a  slight  cough,  "if  this  is Southend, there's something very odd about it ..."

 "Which way do you reckon Zaphod?" said Ford.

 In a moment the scene vanished and  left  them  in  a  springtime meadow full of cows

. "Does anyone know why Arthur  can't  turn  on  the  Improbability Drive?" shouted Trillian

 Its crew of four were ill at ease knowing that they had been brought together not of their own volition  or by simple coincidence, but by some curious principle of physics - as if relationships between people were  susceptible to  the  same  laws that governed the relationships between atoms and molecules.Jeltz  delighted was   Vogon.  He  knew  that  when  a Dentrassi  looked  that  pleased  with itself there was something going on somewhere on the ship  that  he  could  get  very  angry indeed about.



. "Z.he ," said.B

 "And I write novels!" chimed in the other cop. "Though I  haven't had  any  of  them  published yet, so I better warn you, I'm in a meeeean mood!"



 For a moment  it  seemed  that  nothing  was  happening,  then  a brightness  glowed at the edge of the huge screen. A red star the size of a small plate crept across it followed quickly by another one  -  a  binary  system.  Then  a vast crescent sliced into the corner of the picture - a red glare shading away  into  the  deep black, the night side of the planet.

 "Yes, do continue ..." invited the Vogon.

 "Hosts?" said Arthur. "What hosts? I don't see any ..."

 There was a moment's expectant pause whilst panels slowly came to life  on  the  front  of  the  console. Lights flashed on and off experimentally and settled down into a  businesslike  pattern.  A soft low hum came from the communication channel.

 Marvin ignored him. cover letters Don't friendly its is  in cheaper; the slightly has and   First,  it on it large inscribed words secondly.

 "What? Harmless? Is that all  it's  got  to  say?  Harmless!  One word!"

"."We," said safe?" said "Is  Majikthise, "are he Philosophers

 it.

 "Oh yes," said Arthur, "and how far's that?"

 The  voice  was  old,  courteous,  almost   charming,   but   was underscored with quite unmistakable menace.

 Ford knew they were there.. This wasn't the way he had wanted it



 They held their breath and waited.

 Arthur drank the liquid and found it reviving. He glanced  up  at the  screens again and watched a few more hundred miles of barren greyness slide past.  It  suddenly  occurred  to  him  to  ask  a question which had been bothering him.



 Ford said "No, those tipped are.

 "Why, what did she tell you?"

 Deep Thought pondered this for a moment.

 "Yeah."

 "You know we built planets do you?" he asked solemnly.

"

 Zaphod stared at them in astonishment.smelly unwashed underwear that cracked Marvin of  great bell,   mattress, and the "Alright," unidentifiable grubby said cramped of it

 do bits 

  lay  "I'll at cups  around the frowned     like tolling a  alien .through 

 from in her door burst.

 "Anyway," said Trillian, turning back to the controls, "I  didn't pick them up."

 "Oh give it a rest," said Ford. He twisted his head till  he  was looking straight up into his captor's face.him struck A thought.

 "Yeah," said Zaphod, "and the only possible way  of  stealing  it was to be at the launching ceremony."

 "I'm sorry," he said, "I think we might  be  better  off  with  a slide rule."

".  "Arthur  this  is  Benji mouse. "Let me introduce you," said  Trillian

 It begins with a house



 "Nothing."

 "What do you mean you've  met?"  he  demanded.  "This  is  Zaphod Beeblebrox from Betelgeuse Five you know, not bloody Martin Smith from Croydon.each other crept stared "

 at and then as the over they stupefied at A men the slow silence.



".this ship, a working is you "Well, said see," Ford  .really said   nothing are quarters



 "These it Arthur, the "Oh," was Dentrassi "well, sleeping. "And what does it say now?" asked Arthur

 "Infinity minus one," chattered the computer, "Improbability  sum now complete."

. One of Zaphod's heads looked away. The other one looked round  to see  what  the  first  was  looking  at, but it wasn't looking at anything very much

 "In a few seconds," he continued, "we should see ... there!"

 He cleared his throat. A moment of doubt came to Ford as he watched the  grey  landscape move  beneath  them.  The immensity of time worried him, he could feel it as a presence.

 Mr Prosser wanted to be at point D. Point D  wasn't  anywhere  in particular, it was just any convenient point a very long way from points A, B and C. He would have a nice little cottage  at  point D,  with  axes over the door, and spend a pleasant amount of time at point E, which would be the nearest pub to point D.  His  wife of  course  wanted  climbing roses, but he wanted axes. He didn't know why - he  just  liked  axes.  He  flushed  hotly  under  the derisive grins of the bulldozer drivers.

 The two men shivered with expectancy. Their waiting had not  been in vain.

 "Damnation," muttered Frankie mouse,  "all  that  fuss  over  two pounds of Earthling brain." He scuttled round and about, his pink eyes flashing, his fine white coat bristling with static.



" said Zaphod again, who had been trying to think of some subtle piece of reasoning to put the computer down with, and had decided not to bother competing with it on  its  own  ground, "if  you  don't  open  that  exit  hatch  this moment I shall zap straight off to your major data banks and reprogram  you  with  a very large axe, got that?"..

 "My name is not important," he said.

 "They want to get rid of us," said Trillian nervously.  "What  do we do?"

 "Well didn't you think of anything? I thought you said  you  were going to think of something. Perhaps you thought of something and didn't notice."

 Hello? Why am I here? What's my purpose in life?



". Or something .

 "You still there?" called one of the cops

 Ford looked at him severely.

 "GPP feature?" said Arthur. "What's that?"

 The cop was quite clearly dead.

 "You wouldn't do that!". "But that's crazy!" cried Trillian

 "He said it isn't easy being a cop

 "Look, what's the matter with you Ford?" said Arthur.

 Mr Prosser shook his finger at him for a bit,  then  stopped  and put it away again.



 "All I wanted  to  say,"  bellowed  the  computer,  "is  that  my circuits  are now irrevocably committed to calculating the answer to the Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything -" he  paused  and  satisfied  himself  that  he  now had everyone's attention, before continuing more  quietly,  "but  the  programme will take me a little while to run

.. The Time of Waiting is over!".miles Universe and "Honoured  us hundred  now  "The  known is of of ever  three and 





  beneath planet the the surface Interesting the Truly Descendants Vroomfondel..."  he  continued. He was trying to restore a sense of occasion to what he felt should have been a great  moment.  Magrathea!  He was piqued by Ford's sceptical reaction. Magrathea!

 Someone in the hushed  bar  suddenly  laughed  raucously  at  how stupid everyone had become.

 "You mean you know this guy?" he said, waving a  wild  finger  at Zaphod.

 "You watch this door," he muttered, "it's about to open again.  I can   tell  by  the  intolerable  air  of  smugness  it  suddenly generates."

 "What would you reckon to find here?" urged Zaphod.

 "Why," said Ford squatting down beside him  and  shivering,  "are you lying face down in the dust?"

 They waited for a few more seconds.

 "No, no, too  literal,  too  factual,"  said  Frankie,  "wouldn't sustain the punters' interest."



 "Try and understand his problem," insisted Ford..."

 "What an extraordinary person," he muttered to himself.

 Slowly, with great loathing, he stepped towards the door, like  a hunter stalking his prey.it Suddenly open slid.

 "Well, I was able to extend the original entry a bit, yes."

 "That's the display department."

".walk  "When storm the you." it  whined  nasally,  "hold your head up high ..

 "Somebody did that to you?" whispered Ford.Zaphod her laughed 



" again, at. "If there's anything more important than my ego around, I want it caught and shot now.

 "Slartibartfast," repeated the old man quietly

 "Buzz them?" Arthur began to feel that Ford was  enjoying  making life difficult for him." Ford leant back on the mattress  with his hands behind his head and looked infuriatingly pleased with himself.. "Yeah", said Ford, "they buzz them. They find some isolated  spot with  very  few  people around, then land right by some poor soul whom no one's ever going to believe and then strut up and down in front  of  him  wearing  silly antennae on their heads and making beep beep noises

 "Well,  the  Earth  Mark  Two  in  fact,"   said   Slartibartfast cheery

 Arthur  looked  up expectantly. "Oh yes, I thought of something," panted Ford

 Again, a significant pause.

 "I would, wouldn't you Ford?" said Zaphod promptingly.

 "Who was that?" asked Arthur

 Zaphod leapt out of his seat.well, OK?" for safety, just said Zaphod 

.

 "Well, you know ... no. Not as such, but ..."

 Ford thought about this.

 "The Universe!" said Lunkwill.copy That  few  Guide took putting  to Horsehead busy small through Gold between in  Ford's years discussing and the sat corner The palm light Nebula, the bang Heart 

 life  Gargle  was trying it; matters Pan itself  and Hitch Hiker's Trillian  as night, bridge on bed Zaphod  to arising to with and  tree and into Arthur flip of Galaxy massive the the his Blasters; a lounged .he   out he'd about finding  start reasoned, better something was in it  the Since live place, going he.

 "Oh nothing," said Arthur, "only joking."

 "Well for God's sake I hope you managed to rectify that a bit."

 >From time to time a doorway led either to the left or right  into smallish  chambers  which  Ford discovered to be full of derelict computer equipment. He dragged Zaphod into one to  have  a  look.Trillian.

 "Is no one going to  say,  No  you  can't  possibly,  let  me  go instead?"

 "Yes," said Ford, "except ... no! Wait  a  minute!"  he  suddenly lunged  across  the  chamber at something behind Arthur's line of vision. "What's this switch?" he cried.

 "You know? How do you know?"

".. "Walk on, walk on, with hope in your heart 

 "Oh yes we would," shouted the cop, "wouldn't we?" he  asked  the other one.

 "Does that matter at this stage?" shouted Arthur.

 The robot camera homed in for a close up on the more  popular  of his  two  heads  and  he  waved again. He was roughly humanoid in appearance except for the extra head  and  third  arm.  His  fair tousled  hair  stuck  out  in  random  directions,  his blue eyes glinted with something completely unidentifiable, and  his  chins were almost always unshaven.

 A millisecond later the air about them started to fry  again,  as bolt  after  bolt  of  Kill-O-Zap hurled itself into the computer bank in front of them.

 "You were upset!"



 Somewhere on the wall a small white light flashed.

 "In the mud."



". "The mice were furious

 "Er, no ... well,  yes.  Actually  you  see,  we  weren't  really expecting  to find anybody about in fact. I sort of gathered that you were all dead or something ..."

 He glanced round at the others.

 we've got to get manual control of this ship. Zaphod tried  to  run  in  several  equally  decisive  directions simultaneously."."Er .. "Right!" said he.

 "We are quite definitely  here as  representatives  of  the  Amalgamated  Union of Philosophers, Sages, Luminaries and Other Thinking Persons, and  we  want  this machine off, and we want it off now!"

 Ford stared at him in horror and felt his skin begin to crawl.

 "But have you any idea who? Or why?"

 "Well yes," said Arthur, "I'd sort of gathered ..."

 For a few seconds the inertial forces held them flattened and squirming for  breath,  unable  to  move. Air cushions ballooned out of the walls in an instant as everyone was  thrown  against  them

 "Hi gang!" enthused the computer. "This is getting real  sociable isn't it?"

 (Excerpt from The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy, Page 634784, Section 5a, Entry: Magrathea)

 Arthur practically choked.

 "According to the legends," he said, "the Magratheans lived  most of their lives underground."

 "Ford, what are you doing?" he asked in an amazed whisper.

 "I wish you'd stop sulking about that bloody planet," said  Ford. "Who was the lady?"

 "Has Mr Dent come to his senses yet?"

 "There really is one?" breathed Phouchg.

 He looked at the old man, his face illuminated by the  dull  glow of tiny lights on the instrument panel.



 "First I've heard of it," said Arthur,  "why's  it  going  to  be built?"

 "What are you talking about?"

 "Yes, he wants to build ..."

 It was Arthur's accepted role to lie squelching in  the  mud  making occasional  demands to see his lawyer, his mother or a good book; it was Mr Prosser's accepted  role  to  tackle  Arthur  with  the occasional  new  ploy  such  as the For the Public Good talk, the March of Progress talk, the They Knocked My House Down  Once  You Know,  Never  Looked  Back  talk and various other cajoleries and threats; and it was the bulldozer drivers' accepted role  to  sit around  drinking  coffee and experimenting with union regulations to see how they could  turn  the  situation  to  their  financial advantage. Human beings are great adaptors, and by  lunchtime  life  in  the environs  of Arthur's house had settled into a steady routine

". "Yes," said Trillian, "they are the mice I brought with  me  from the Earth

 Zaphod waved a hand and the channel  switched  again.  More  gunk music,  but this time it was a background to a news announcement.edited the the news    always rhythms  of The heavily fit was to music."I called thought Vogons or they something were you said."

 What a day. Ford Prefect knew that it didn't  matter  a  pair  of dingo's  kidneys  whether  Arthur's house got knocked down or not now.

 "Initials? Burnt into your brain?"

 Arthur looked inquiringly at Trillian. She motioned him  to  come on in but keep quiet.

 "Yeah?" said Zaphod and blinked

"

 "What, are you crazy?"

 Ford was holding up a small glass jar which quite clearly  had  a small  yellow fish wriggling around in it. Arthur blinked at him. He wished there was something simple and  recognizable  he  could grasp hold of. He would have felt safe if alongside the Dentrassi underwear, the piles of Squornshellous  mattresses  and  the  man from  Betelgeuse  holding  up a small yellow fish and offering to put it in his ear he had been able to see just a small packet  of corn flakes. He couldn't, and he didn't feel safe.Zaphod "Very petulantly pretty," said 







.

 "And he can't because you're lying in front of the bulldozers?"

 He shook himself.. The panel  lit  up with  the  words  Please do not press this button again. edge  the on place understand   a the began invitingly  trailing his for did wander,  panel

 while, red   listened  majority but  he you mind Ford along "But out of was I let vast  nearby pressed to his bank,  an  what a how he and to Vogon!"

 first get reached the  in    speak short computer large  can't an unable of  incomprehensible button saying then?"

.. This is what he heard 

 The  crowd  gasped,  dazzled  by  sun  and  seemanship,  as   the Presidential speedboat zipped round the headland into the bay. It flashed and shone as  it  came  skating  over  the  sea  in  wide skidding turns.

 Suddenly the air exploded with energy  bolts  as  both  the  cops opened fire on them simultaneously.

 To be fair though, when  confronted  by  the  sheer  enormity  of distances   between   the   stars,  better  minds  than  the  one responsible for the  Guide's  introduction  have  faltered. concepts

 small we a a a and consider now in  there a reading peanut that planet  Some native dizzying Johannesburg, for  was and was before moment such seconds walnut you to "Not invite  of  who. "It  looks  very much as if we won't be needing the new Earth any longer."

 The Vogon perused them.

 He edged up to Trillian and asked her what was going on. All this Magrathea business seemed  totally  incomprehensible  to Arthur

 He tapped irritably at a control panel.  Trillian  quietly  moved his  hand  before he tapped anything important. Whatever Zaphod's qualities of mind might include - dash, bravado, conceit - he was mechanically  inept  and  could  easily  blow the ship up with an extravagant gesture. Trillian had come to suspect that  the  main reason  why  he  had  had such a wild and successful life that he never really understood the significance of anything he did.

 They huddled further back and waited for the end. The heat and noise was quite fantastic.. The front had almost all melted away, and thick rivulets of molten metal were winding  their  way back towards where they were squatting

.Galaxy started ignorant knew  as Ilford-based as back suddenly felt was resent ground about  life The  to he having gnat Peking

 to  about he the an Now much computer himself  this the with in primitive     sing affairs began lumbered.

 Arthur agreed this was very sad. He did this with a small  feeble gesture, because he was too asphyxicated to speak.

 And then, one Thursday, nearly two thousand years after  one  man had  been nailed to a tree for saying how great it would be to be nice to people for a change, one girl sitting on  her  own  in  a small  cafe  in  Rickmansworth suddenly realized what it was that had been going wrong all this time, and she finally knew how  the world  could  be  made  a  good and happy place. This time it was right, it would work, and no one would  have  to  get  nailed  to anything.

 "Then what," asked Fook, "is the problem?"

 "I went to the ship's medical bay and  plugged  myself  into  the encephelographic  screen.  I  went  through every major screening test on both my heads - all the tests I had to go  through  under government  medical  officers before my nomination for Presidency could be properly  ratified.  They  showed  up  nothing.  Nothing unexpected  at least. They showed that I was clever, imaginative, irresponsible, untrustworthy,  extrovert,  nothing  you  couldn't have  guessed.  And  no  other  anomalies. So I started inventing further tests,  completely  at  random.  Nothing.  Then  I  tried superimposing  the  results  from  one head on top of the results from the other head. nothing. Finally I got silly,  because I'd  given  it all up as nothing more than an attack of paranoia. Last thing I did before I packed it in was take the  superimposed picture and look at it through a green filter. You remember I was always superstitious about the color green when I was  a  kid?  I always wanted to be a pilot on one of the trading scouts?"

". "There is an answer?" said Fook with breathless excitement

.. . er, what happens next?"

 He shrugged. Bullshit, thought Ford. Even supposing this was the home of  some ancient civilization now gone to dust, even supposing a number of exceedingly unlikely things, there was no way that vast treasures of  wealth  were  going to be stored there in any form that would still have meaning now



 "I don't know," said the  voice  on  the  PA,  "apathetic  bloody planet, I've no sympathy at all.." It cut off

 "Ford!" he said, "there's an infinite number of  monkeys  outside who  want  to  talk  to  us  about this script for Hamlet they've worked out."



 "I know," he said. "Wretched isn't it?"



 "Now?" inquired Deep Thought.

 "Probability? What do you mean?"



 Ford would have to go after him. Turning quickly to the barman he asked for four packets of peanuts.

 At that moment a steel shutter slammed down behind them  and  gas started to pour into the chamber.



 "And don't ... be afraid ... of the dark!" Eddie wailed."Fine," said "talk Arthur, 

."

 "Is that robot yours?" he said.

 "What happened?" said Arthur.

 The man looked away.. Again a kind of sadness seemed to cross  his face

 They shrugged at each other. Fook composed himself.

 If he said anything further after that it was lost.engines hatchway sealed faint ship's The  itself sound distant  was the all tight, lost the and.



 "That's  right!"  agreed  Majikthise.  "You'll  have  a  national Philosopher's strike on your hands!"

 The man stifled a very slight yawn and continued.

 "Yes, an electronic brain," said Frankie,  "a  simple  one  would suffice.pub "

   the then, it laugh longer, embarrassingly and did was enough, the raucous a silent again. The girl he had dragged along to the pub with him had  grown  to  loathe  him dearly  over the last hour or so, and it would probably have been a great satisfaction to her to know that in a minute and  a  half or so he would suddenly evaporate into a whiff of hydrogen, ozone and carbon monoxide.the  notice it However, too to evaporating be when  busy she  came moment.

 Mr Prosser took a few nervous steps forward and stopped.

 "Of Life, the Universe, and Everything?"

 He experienced a moment's panic as  he  sailed  straight  through towards  the  window,  which  passed when a second or so later he found  he  had  gone  right  through  the  solid  glass   without apparently touching it.

 "And then you stole the Heart of Gold to come  and  look  for  it with?"

. Far away on the opposite spiral arm of the Galaxy,  five  hundred thousand  light  years  from  the  star  Sol,  Zaphod Beeblebrox, President of the Imperial Galactic Government,  sped  across  the seas  of  Damogran, his ion drive delta boat winking and flashing in the Damogran sun

 "Hey ... Yeah!" said Zaphod.

 The Universe jumped, froze, quivered and splayed out  in  several unexpected directions.

. "But I'll tell you who can," said Deep Thought

 They both licked their dry lips

 The Earth.

 Add an olive.

. "But what about my house .?" he asked plaintively.

 shouted interested!"  just "They're.  "Computer,  start  a descent into the atmosphere and prepare for landing."



 First he wiped a couple of windows and charged  me a fiver. "Appropriate time? The first I knew  about it was when a workman arrived at my home yesterday. Then he told me.". Oh no. He didn't tell me straight away of course. I asked him if he'd come to clean the windows and he said  no  he'd come  to  demolish  the house

. This, briefly, is the story of its discovery

 The fact that they did is some kind  of  tribute  to  the  thick- willed  slug-brained  stubbornness of these creatures. Evolution? they said to themselves, Who needs it?, and what  nature  refused to  do  for  them they simply did without until such time as they were able to rectify the grosser anatomical  inconveniences  with surgery.Slartibartfast," go thank mouse  Benji you sharply, may  "you 

. "Er, excuse me," he said

 "To Everything? To the great Question of Life, the  Universe  and Everything?"

 "Just that?" he said.

 "... and news brought to you here  on  the  sub-etha  wave  band, broadcasting  around  the  galaxy  around  the clock," squawked a voice, "and we'll be saying a big hello to all  intelligent  life forms  everywhere  ... and to everyone else out there, the secret is to bang the rocks together, guys.Beeblebrox Zaphod none President the the the Improbability is big story other ship  news And Galactic new by theft than  sensational prototype of of Drive. And the question everyone's asking is ... has the big Z finally flipped? Beeblebrox,  the  man  who  invented  the  Pan Galactic  Gargle Blaster, ex-confidence trickster, once described by Eccentrica Gallumbits as the Best Bang since the Big One,  and recently  voted  the  Wort  Dressed  Sentinent Being in the Known Universe for the seventh time ... has he got an answer this time? We  asked his private brain care specialist Gag Halfrunt ..." The music swirled and dived for a moment.  Another  voice  broke  in, presumably  Halfrunt.  He  said: "Vell, Zaphod's jist zis guy you know?" but got no further because an electric pencil flew  across the  cabin  and  through  the  radio's on/off sensitive airspace. Zaphod turned and glared at Trillian - she had thrown the pencil.

 "Shhh," said Ford, "come in."

 He seemed to be excited, but they couldn't clearly hear  what  he was saying because of the thinnish atmosphere and the wind.

 A screen, about three inches by four, lit up and characters began to flicker across the surface.

  "You think the world's going to end?". "Are you serious, sir?" he said in a small whisper which had  the effect  of  silencing  the  pub

 "It's just life," they say.said "Does "No?" mean quietly, beside Trillian grimly walked along he 

 that him to anything. "Really?"

  Today  he  was  particularly  nervous  and worried because something had gone seriously wrong with his job  -  which was  to  see  that Arthur Dent's house got cleared out of the way before the day was out.. He was by no means a great warrior: in  fact  he  was  a  nervous worried  man

 "Yes, I can understand that," he said at last.

 The barman simply decided to walk away for a bit.

 "Hello? Yes?" said Arthur.



 A few minutes later he opened and closed the  hatchway  again  in response to a command that caught him entirely by surprise.

. Once you started to lose you would probably keep losing,  because one  of  the  effects  of  Janx  spirit is to depress telepsychic power

 "In front of the bulldozer?"

 "It's very simple," said Ford, "my client, Mr Dent, says that  he will  stop  lying  here in the mud on the sole condition that you come and take over from him." "What are you talking about?" said Arthur, but  Ford  nudged  him with his shoe to be quiet.

 "Well perhaps you can take a  quick  skiing  holiday  before  you dismantle them," said Frankie, acidly.

 Zaphod shrugged.

 "I don't know," yelled Ford, "I don't know.  It  sounded  like  a measurement of probability."

 "Resistance is useless," bellowed the guard, and then added, "You see  if  I  keep  it  up  I can eventually get promoted to Senior Shouting Officer, and there aren't  usually  many  vacancies  for non-shouting  and  non-pushing-people-about  officers, so I think I'd better stick to what I know."

.house," if nice it's said

 shouted he not "It's  Zaphod a particularly "Computer!".

 The others followed quickly and the door  slit  back  into  place with pleased little clicks and whirrs.looked was to  



 corner humming sitting  from himself he a. He always found the actual travelling-through-space part of space travel rather trying.

 "You seem ill at ease," said the old man with polite concern.

 "Same as you," she said, "I hitched a  lift.  After  all  with  a degree  in  Maths and another in astrophysics what else was there to do? It was either that or the dole queue again on Monday."

 "Mostly harmless!" shouted Arthur.. "What was that noise?" hissed Ford

 The subtlest of hums indicated that the massive computer was  now in  total  active mode.spoke it  pause After and them to in voice a deep a.

.. "Though your dreams be tossed and blown ." sand Eddie.

 Ford went and had a look at  it.  It  was  a  series  of  figures flashing over a screen.

 Vogon poetry is of course the third worst in the Universe.

"



 "But the second?" insisted Lunkwill.you are saying Titan  You're  do   you?  the Perspicutron the  the  Multicorticoid surely Or  not  Muller  "Why second?  keep   thinking..."

. I think  I  just sort of ... My aunt said that spaceship guard was a good career for a young Vogon - you know, the uniform,  the  low- slung stun ray holster, the mindless tedium . "Er . I dunno.. er ..." said the guard, "er 

 "Well he can do it while you're away can't he?" he asked.

. "And you'll never walk alone .. alone!"..... ver . walk ... Impact minus five seconds,  it's been  great knowing you guys, God bless .

" >From the heart of a dark nebula it is possible to  see  very  few stars, and only very faintly, but they were there to be seen. "Look robot,  the  stars  are  coming out. "Night's falling," he said.

 "Yes ..

 The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy also mentions  alcohol.Pan Blaster best the the drink is  says  Galactic in existence .

". "On display? I eventually had to go down to the  cellar  to  find them

. out work this I to want.. Computer!"

 "Hey, they're shooting at us," said Arthur, crouching in a  tight ball, "I thought they said they didn't want to do that."

 "Yeah," said Zaphod with a sudden evil grin, "you'd just have  to program  it  to  say What? and I don't understand and Where's the tea? - who'd know the difference?"

 "Arthur!" he said, "this is fantastic! We've been picked up by  a ship  powered  by  the  Infinite  Improbability  Drive!  This  is incredible! I  heard  rumors  about  it  before!  They  were  all officially  denied, but they must have done it! They've built the Improbability  Drive!  Arthur,  this  is   ...   Arthur?   What's happening?"

  "An  Ultimate Question that sounds good? From a couple of mice?"

 "No."

".  "I  only  know as much about myself as my mind can work out under its current conditions. "It's a  possibility  I  haven't  ruled  out  yet,"  said  Zaphod quietly. And its current conditions  are not good

"

 The guard grasped them both firmly round  the  neck,  and  bowing deferentially  towards  his  captain's  back,  hoiked  them  both protesting out of the bridge. He hummed quietly and mused to himself, lightly fingering his notebook of verses. A steel door closed and the captain was  on  his  own  again

 Yawn. Kettle, plug, fridge, milk, coffee.The transports glass the where the floor sniffed round irritably two fragments shattered mice lay on.

 "That's it," said Ford. "That's it exactly."

. "You got a towel with you?" said Ford Prefect suddenly to Arthur





 "No," said Arthur, "no, I didn't."

 "In, as you say it, the mud."

 The planet's surface  was  blurred  by  time, by the slow movement of the thin stagnant air that had crept across it for century upon century. The suns now stood high in the black sky, the  pyrotechnics  of  dawn  were  over,  and  the surface of the planet appeared bleak and forbidding in the common light of day - grey, dusty and only dimly  contoured. More of the planet was unfolding beneath them  as  the  Heart  of Gold  streaked along its orbital path.. From time to time promising features would appear on the distant horizon - ravines,  maybe  mountains, maybe even cities - but as they approached the lines would soften and blur into anonymity and nothing would transpire.  It  looked dead  and  cold  as a crypt

 On the pavement lay Ford Prefect and  Arthur  Dent  gulping  like half-spent fish.

 Pour into it one measure of water from the seas of Santraginus  V -  Oh that Santraginean sea water, it says. Oh those Santraginean fish!!!

 It sped swiftly. Arthur's companion seemed sunk in his own thoughts,  and  when  Arthur  tried  on  a couple of occasions to engage him in conversation again he would simply reply by  asking if he was comfortable enough, and then left it at that

 "But I was stuck there for fifteen years!"





 "Telephone number?" she  said.  "Did  that  thing  say  telephone number?" Numbers flashed up on the screen.

. He banked sharply, shooting a wild wall of water at the sun

 Ford frowned to himself and seemed to roll the thought around his mind



 "You think you've  got  problems,"  said  Marvin  as  if  he  was addressing  a newly occupied coffin, "what are you supposed to do if you are a manically  depressed  robot?  No,  don't  bother  to answer  that,  I'm fifty thousand times more intelligent than you and even I don't know the answer.". It gives  me  a  headache  just trying to think down to your level

 Sprinkle Zamphuor.

 Arthur lay in the mud and squelched at him.

 "This," said Slartibartfast,  "is  where  we  make  most  of  our planets you see."

 "Oh good," said Arthur.

 Arthur Dent had never, ever suspected this.

 They plunged through heavy walls of sound, mountains  of  archaic  thought,  valleys  of  mood music, bad shoe sessions and footling bats and suddenly heard a girl's voice.

 "Hey," he said, "I thought you said you didn't want to shoot us!" and ducked again. "You form mean," now?"

 starting  "you trying words, said Arthur, mean to it you're again    the. Arthur's voice tailed off

. "I beg your pardon?" said Benji

 He was still listening to the howling gargles, he knew that, only now  it  had  taken on the semblance of perfectly straightforward English.

 "Never again," cried the man, "never again will we wake up in the morning  and  think Who am I? What is my purpose in life? Does it really, cosmically speaking, matter if I don't get up and  go  to work?  For today we will finally learn once and for all the plain and simple answer to all these nagging little problems  of  Life, the Universe and Everything!"

 "Hey," he cooed to himself, "you're a real cool boy you." But his nerves sang a song shriller than a dog whistle.

 "We're going to get lynched aren't we?" he whispered.

 "Oh frettled gruntbuggly ..." he  began.  Spasms  wracked  Ford's body - this was worse than ever he'd been prepared for.

 Here was an approach that had quite simply not occurred to him. Ford turned and gaped

. "Promise," said Ford. He turned to Arthur

 "I like the cover," he said. "Don't Panic. It's the first helpful or intelligible thing anybody's said to me all day."



  It  was  destroyed  five  minutes before the completion of the purpose for which it was built, and  we've  got to build another one. "Earthman, the planet you lived on was  commissioned,  paid  for, and  run  by  mice

 Arthur tripped, and fell headlong, rolled and landed flat on  his back.  At last he noticed that something was going on. His finger shot upwards.

 The Vogon began to read - a  fetid  little  passage  of  his  own devising.







 The room was much as Slartibartfast had described  it.  In  seven and  a  half  million  years  it  had  been well looked after and cleaned regularly every century or so. The ultramahagony desk was worn  at  the edges, the carpet a little faded now, but the large computer terminal sat in sparkling glory on  the  desk's  leather top, as bright as if it had been constructed yesterday. Two severely dressed men sat respectfully before the terminal and waited.

 "Listen!"

. Eventually of course, after their Galaxy had been decimated  over a  few  thousand  years, it was realized that the whole thing had been a ghastly mistake, and so the  two  opposing  battle  fleets settled  their  few  remaining  differences  in order to launch a joint attack on our own Galaxy - now positively identified as the source of the offending remark

 "I think they're just strange symbols of some kind," said Zaphod, hardly glancing back.

 "You  see,  Earthman,  they  really   are   particularly   clever hyperintelligent  pan-dimensional  beings. Your planet and people have formed the matrix of an  organic  computer  running  a  ten- million-year research programme ...

 "Though I don't think," added Deep Thought, "that you're going to like it."

 With horror they suddenly realized that it was fresh whalemeat.  Zaphod Arthur, him,  at looked Trillian    

   and Ford, at .

 The two programmers sat in uncomfortable silence  for  a  moment.forward again leaned Lunkwill .

 And the next thing that happened after that was that the Heart of Gold  continued  on  its  way  perfectly  normally  with a rather fetchingly redesigned interior.. It was in fact sensationally beautiful.  Around  the  periphery  of  the  conservatory area stood marble-topped tables on intricately beautiful wrought-iron  legs.were  at Looked from correct from reflect data reflected mirrors where clear  angles from the appeared though far the  readouts, to  was it the they. In the centre a spiral staircase, leading nowhere in particular, stood in a spray of  ferns  and  yellow  flowers  and  next  to it a stone sundial pedestal housed the main computer  terminal.  Cunningly  deployed lighting  and  mirrors  created  the  illusion  of  standing in a conservatory overlooking a wide stretch of exquisitely  manicured garden

 Second by second the image of the missiles on the  screen  became larger.  They had swung round now on to a direct homing course so that all that could be seen of them now was  the  warheads,  head on.there! 

 What I "Hi  can...in Arthur "

 hands over.just   at 6  does," under  there, he  said,  screen, bottom see whore the "down triple-breasted the of Eccentrica it Eroticon  of "Yes Gallumbits, the 

."

 "Ah, I'm sorry," said Ford, "perhaps I hadn't made  myself  fully clear.won't space Mr to Blagulon life methane-breathing  for of anything  revealed examination in lie form, into Magrathea thin   him  front quick from dependent Or survival   oxygen the stop his the Dent's Somebody's A to a was there?"

 Kappa  on them got he  they?  in house  will.

. Mr Prosser thought about this

 One of the things  Ford  Prefect  had  always  found  hardest  to understand  about  human  beings  was  their habit of continually stating and repeating the obvious, as in  It's  a  nice  day,  or You're  very  tall,  or  Oh  dear  you seem to have fallen down a thirty-foot well, are you alright? At first  Ford  had  formed  a theory  to  account  for  this strange behaviour. If human beings don't keep  exercising  their  lips,  he  thought,  their  mouths probably   seize  up.  After  a  few  months'  consideration  and observation he abandoned this theory in favour of a new  one.  If they  don't  keep  on  exercising  their  lips, he thought, their brains start working. After a while he abandoned this one as well as  being  obstructively cynical and decided he quite liked human beings after all, but  he  always  remained  desperately  worried about the terrible number of things they didn't know about.

 The other mouse said, "Pleased to meet you," and did likewise.

 Clearly, it was very very old.

 {About Ford Perfect}

.take the the Take bottle Janx  that ordered one "Come on," juice down he bridge to Spirit,  been "I've Ol' you droned, it of.the you brain I and of a down me planet   they ask bridge size to to Here am, the. Call that job satisfaction?  'Cos  I don't."

 "Arthur," said Arthur.

 "I don't know," said Trillian, "but those aliens - they're on the way  up  to the bridge with that wretched robot.the up "Dead?" any man pick old cameras?"

 on  we said them monitor.have no, but  "Good gracious we."

 "What do you mean? Who picked them up then?"



 "I'll tell you  what  the  problem  is  mate,"  said  Majikthise, "demarcation, that's the problem!"

 "We didn't wake you earlier," said Trillian. "The last planet was knee deep in fish."

 "Skiing holiday!" cried the old man. "Those glaciers are works of art!  Elegantly  sculptured  contours,  soaring pinnacles of ice, deep majestic ravines! It would be sacrilege to go skiing on high art!"

 "Oh yes, we'd have to, no question," the other one called back.

 Only one man stood and  watched  the  sky,  stood  with  terrible sadness in his eyes and rubber bungs in his ears. He knew exactly what was happening and had known ever since his Sub-Etha  Sens-O- Matic  had started winking in the dead of night beside his pillar and woken him with a start. It was what he  had  waited  for  all these  years,  but  when  he  had  deciphered  the signal pattern sitting alone in his small dark room a coldness had  gripped  him and squeezed his heart. Of all the races in all of the Galaxy who could have come and said a big hello to planet Earth, he thought, didn't it just have to be the Vogons.

 "Great guys," said Ford. "They're the best  cooks  and  the  best drink  mixers and they don't give a wet slap about anything else. And they'll always help hitch hikers aboard, partly because  they like  the company, but mostly because it annoys the Vogons. know if   see than an hitch the you sort   hiker day to thirty trying   less Which Altairan the  of   a Universe   of impoverished Dollars thing for the you're. And  that's my job. Fun, isn't it?"

 Ford Prefect's original name is only pronuncible in an  obscure Betelgeusian  dialect,  now  virtually  extinct  since  the Great Collapsing Hrung Disaster of Gal./Sid./Year 03758 which wiped out all  the  old  Praxibetel communities on Betelgeuse Seven. Ford's father was the only man on the entire planet to survive the Great Collapsing  Hrung  disaster, by an extraordinary coincidence that he was never able satisfactorily to explain. The whole episode is shrouded  in  deep mystery: in fact no one ever knew what a Hrung was nor why  it  had  chosen  to  collapse  on  Betelgeuse  Seven particularly.  Ford's  father,  magnanimously  waving  aside  the clouds of suspicion that had inevitably settled around him,  came to  live  on  Betelgeuse  Five  where he both fathered and uncled Ford; in memory of his now dead race he  christened  him  in  the ancient Praxibetel tongue.

 "Da da da dum! Doesn't that stir anything in you?"

". "Yes," said Ford, "the Vogons run the ship,  the  Dentrassis  are the cooks, they let us on board

 Arthur slept: he was terribly tired.

 "We're trapped now aren't we?"



 "Why? I can only guess.". But I do know who the bastard was

 "You know I don't like the look of  that  planet  at  all,"  said Trillian shivering.

 If you ever want . "Sure thing," said the computer, spilling out its message into  a waste bin at the same time, "I understand.."

 "No, wait a minute, this isn't right,"  said  Lunkwill,  worried. "We distinctly designed this computer to be the greatest one ever and we're not making do  with  second  best.

 Then, one day, a student who had been left to sweep  up  the  lab after  a  particularly unsuccessful party found himself reasoning this way:

. "Bring it," said the old man.called of slope which the up being  crawled  Marvin wasn't he He a who to show  ." He turned towards his craft which, though  no  apparent  signal  had  been  given,  now drifted quietly towards them through the dark. "On second thoughts," said the old man, "leave it here. You  must come  with  me.  Great  things  are afoot

 "Come on now ... but look!" he said, less slowly, less brightly. "Huhhhhgggggggnnnnnnn  ..."  said  Arthur   without   any   clear inflection.

 It said, This is probably the best button to press.

 Ford gaped at him in astonishment for a moment, and  then  roared with laughter.

 They were in a brightly polished cylindrical  chamber  about  six feet in diameter and ten feet long.

 "The best way to get a drink out of a  Vogon  is  to  stick  your finger  down  his  throat, and the best way to irritate him is to feed his grandmother to the Ravenous Bugblatter Beast of Traal.

  It's got to be prepared."

'. "The argument goes something like this: `I refuse to prove that I exist,' says God, `for proof denies faith, and without faith I am nothing

 "No."

"... "

 Arthur glanced around him once more, and then down at himself, at the sweaty dishevelled clothes he had been lying in the mud in on Thursday morning.

 "Computer, what evasive action can we take?".. take  evasive  action!"  said Zaphod  with  a  sudden  access of panic.. er 

 As he grinned his heart screamed unbearably and he  fingered  the small Paralyso-Matic bomb that nestled quietly in his pocket.

 "This is terrific," Arthur thought to himself,  "Nelson's  Column has  gone,  McDonald's  have  gone, all that's left is me and the words Mostly Harmless. Any second now all that will  be  left  is Mostly  Harmless.  And yesterday the planet seemed to be going so well."

 Deep Thought paused for a moment's reflection.

 "Mostly harmless," admitted  Ford  with  a  slightly  embarrassed cough.

 "What did he say? What did he come to see you about?"

 The two philosophers gaped at him.

 "So," continued Ford Prefect, "if you would  just  like  to  come over here and lie down ..."

 Arthur shivered involuntarily as he seated himself  next  to  the old  man.  The  strangeness of it, the silent bobbing movement of the craft as it soared into the night sky quite unsettled him.

 "You know," said Arthur thoughtfully, "all this explains a lot of things.  All  through my life I've had this strange unaccountable feeling that something was going on in the world, something  big, even sinister, and no one would tell me what it was."

 "You've got ten minutes left to spend it."

 The Hitch Hiker's Guide  to  the  Galaxy  defines  the  marketing division  of  the  Sirius  Cybernetics Corporation as "a bunch of mindless jerks who'll be the first  against  the  wall  when  the revolution comes," with a footnote to the effect that the editors would welcome applications from anyone interested in taking  over the post of robotics correspondent.

 She screamed at him, but he just gaped.

 "So what you're saying is that I write poetry because  underneath my  mean  callous  heartless  exterior  I  really just want to be loved," he said. He paused. "Is that right?"

 He said, "Good, is there anywhere we can talk?". They don't have sarcasm on Betelgeuse,  and  Ford  Prefect  often failed  to notice it unless he was concentrating

 Suddenly Marvin stopped, and held up a hand.

 "What's the problem?" said Lunkwill.any 

 a  but maniacs it's a that you  entire by research, yes  of shouted, you?"



 truth,  the begin that it its is you   if of he enjoy in forms,  certainly it," real "She's there dignity multi-dimensional bunch afraid of almost  the point I'm there's run will truth where idealism, suspect not "just of infinity asking pure all  the  do "Well, mean, I  the  yes  being comes. And  if  it  comes  to  a choice between spending yet another ten million years finding that out, and on the other hand just taking the  money  and  running,  then  I  for  one  could  do  with the exercise," said Frankie.

 "No, wait ... I'll tell you something," said Zaphod. "I freewheel a lot. I get an idea to do something, and, hey, why not, I do it. I reckon I'll  become  President  of  the  Galaxy,  and  it  just happens, it's easy. I decide to steal this ship. I decide to look for Magrathea, and it all just happens. Yeah, I work out  how  it can  best  be  done,  right,  but  it always works out. It's like having a Galacticredit card which keeps  on  working  though  you never  send off the cheques. And then whenever I stop and think - why did I want to do something? - how did I work out  how  to  do it?  - I get a very strong desire just to stop thinking about it. Like I have now. It's a big effort to talk about it."

 It is possible that  her  remark  would  have  commanded  greater attention  had  it been generally realized that human beings were only the third most intelligent life form present on  the  planet Earth,  instead  of (as was generally thought by most independent observers) the second.

 "Bloody  hell,"  said  Majikthise,  "now  that  is  what  I  call thinking.  Here Vroomfondel, why do we never think of things like that?"

 "We've arrived at another of those doors."

 Mr Prosser thought it sounded perfectly potty.

 "I don't know," he said, taking a pull of beer.  "Why  -  do  you think it's the sort of thing you're likely to say?"

 "Oh, yes," said the old man, and simply stopped talking again.

 "Right!" snapped the computer. "Who said that?"

.I unto say you "Well, you?" And you it asked

 he shall  name also did didn't..  And  you yourselves shall take on new forms and go down into the computer to  navigate  its  ten-million-year program!  Yes!  I shall design this computer for you..". "I speak of none other than the computer that is  to  come  after me,"  intoned  Deep  Thought,  his voice regaining its accustomed declamatory  tones. A computer which can calculate the  Question  to  the Ultimate   Answer,   a  computer  of  such  infinite  and  subtle complexity that organic  life  itself  shall  form  part  of  its operational  matrix. The Earth.  "A   computer   whose   merest   operational parameters  I  am not worthy to calculate - and yet I will design it for you

 "Did I do anything wrong today,"  he  said,  "or  has  the  world always  been  like this and I've been too wrapped up in myself to notice?"



 "You can't throw us into space," yelled Ford,  "we're  trying  to write a book."

 "Now this is going to be your first day  out  on  a  strange  new planet,"  continued Eddie's new voice, "so I want you all wrapped up snug and warm,  and  no  playing  with  any  naughty  bug-eyed monsters."

. Arthur looked round the nervous faces of his companions

 "You mean that's how the Vogons talk?"

 Zaphod paused for a while. For a while there was silence. Then he frowned  and  said,  "Last night I was worrying about this again. About the fact that part of my mind  just  didn't  seem  to  work properly.  Then it occurred to me that the way it seemed was that someone else was using my mind to have good ideas  with,  without telling  me  about  it.  I put the two ideas together and decided that maybe that somebody had locked off part of my mind for  that purpose, which was why I couldn't use it. I wondered if there was a way I could check.

 "No, no," said Frankie, "it's the brain we want to buy."

 "Could you pass me that bowl of grated Arcturan Megadonkey?"  she said.

 Calm down, get  a  grip  now  ...  oh!  this  is  an  interesting sensation,  what  is  it?  It's  a  sort of ... yawning, tingling sensation in my ... my  ...better my    world, shall for    call suppose it  I I for call what I'd start make  I well I finding what let's to call shall of  in the the    names if  want.Z picked "We in them up Plural ZZ Alpha sector 9 

."

 If,  he  thought  to  himself,  such  a  machine  is  a   virtual impossibility,  then it must logically be a finite improbability.figure   is   make give it  to one fresh  all of  really improbability  cup generator, in    the tea So exactly into  a order have  that  to it feed  out   I is,... and turn it on!

 "Well," said Arthur doubtfully. He wasn't aware  of  ever  having felt  an organic part of anything. He had always seen this as one of his problems.

 "We must know it! Now!"

 Contemptuous lights flashed across the computer's console.

. "Or whatever," said Ford quietly

 "You think we're in trouble!"

"

 "I'll tell you about it later," choked Zaphod as all three passed out.

 "So had the stairs."

 "A what? A recording?"

". "Instead of Mr Dent

 And five hundred entirely naked women dropped out of the  sky  on parachutes.

 She sat on a couch and stared at a small cage  which  contained  her  last and only links with Earth - two white mice that she had insisted Zaphod let her  bring..  It  seemed remote  and  unreal and she could find no thoughts to think about it. She watched the mice scurrying round  the  cage  and  running furiously  in their little plastic treadwheels till they occupied her whole attention

  How  long  have  we known each other?". "Alright," said Ford, "I'll try to  explain

 "Proving nothing," said Ford. "I wouldn't trust that computer  to speak my weight."

 "Er, what is .."

 The voice cleared its throat. A giant  petit  four  lolloped  off into the distance.

 "Oh God," said Zaphod. He hadn't worked with  this  computer  for long but had already learned to loathe it.

 "I don't know what I'm looking for."

 Ford stared at Arthur, who began to think  that  perhaps  he  did want to go to the Horse and Groom after all.

 The house stood on a slight rise just on the edge of the village.. It  stood  on  its  own  and  looked  over a broad spread of West Country farmland. Not a remarkable house by any means  -  it  was about  thirty  years old, squattish, squarish, made of brick, and had four windows set in the front of a size and proportion  which more or less exactly failed to please the eye

 The others swerved in behind him.

 "Er ..."do  O Deep   nervously, Thought," you morning, Good Loonquawl...er,  is..."

 "Hey, this is really terrific, this is just far too much!"

 The President of the Galaxy had arrived

 I'm a personality prototype. So they tried it out with me.Frankie Genuine  robots with   they Personalities," "And People said

   build mouse this .thought "

 He. "The only thing  we  can  do  now,"  said  Benji,  crouching  and stroking his whiskers in thought, "is to try and fake a question, invent one that will sound plausible. "How about  What's  yellow and dangerous?"

 "The couple of guys we picked up."

". "No I don't

 It was a long time before anyone spoke."we'd Southend "Yes!"

 considered, all mad, Arthur, said was "Yes," think things be 

."

. "Yes," said Ford and Trillian

 "Oh, I see," said Frankie. "Well, eventually just habit I  think, to be brutally honest. And this is more or less the point - we're sick to the teeth with the whole thing, and the prospect of doing it all over again on account of those whinnet-ridden Vogons quite frankly gives me the screaming heeby jeebies,  you  know  what  I mean? It was by the merest lucky chance that Benji and I finished our particular job and left the planet early for a quick holiday, and  have since manipulated our way back to Magrathea by the good offices of your friends

 "What are you doing here?". "Tricia McMillian?" he said

 "I beg your pardon?" said the old man.

 "Hmmmm?" he said.

". "The Great Hyperlobic Omni-Cognate Neutron Wrangler,"  said  Deep Thought thoroughly rolling the r's, "could talk all four legs off an Arcturan MegaDonkey - but only I could persuade it to go for a walk afterwards

 "Yes," they called back.



 "Will that help?" asked the barman.

 "I'm afraid you're going to have to accept it," said  Mr  Prosser gripping  his  fur  hat and rolling it round the top of his head, "this bypass has got to be built and it's going to be built!"





 And to this end they built themselves a stupendous super computer which  was  so  amazingly  intelligent  that even before the data banks had been connected up it had started from I think therefore I  am  and got as far as the existence of rice pudding and income tax before anyone managed to turn it off.horror the shouted table  and his tipping 

 from chair up backing  "Thank Arthur,  away you,".

 It says that the effect of a Pan Galactic Gargle Blaster is  like having  your brains smashed out by a slice of lemon wrapped round a large gold brick.

. "Can't bear oceans," said Marvin

 "At the end of the storm ..." crooned Eddie.

 How does that sound?"

 "Do you really enjoy this sort of thing?" he asked suddenly.

 Before the Earth passed away it was going to be  treated  to  the very  ultimate in sound reproduction, the greatest public address system ever built.  But  there  was  no  concert,  no  music,  no fanfare, just a simple message."Well?" hasn't?" 

 sighed he we moment," called that the "Can.

 "My white mice have escaped!" she said

 "No, I think if it's all the same to you," he said,  "I'd  better get you both shoved into this airlock and then go and get on with some other bits of shouting I've got to do."

 "And before that," said Ford, "we  had  platinum.  Bit  dull.  We thought you'd like to see this one though."

 "Nnnnnnnnnnyyyyyyyuuuuuuurrrrrrrggggggghhhhh!" cried Ford Prefect and  threw  one  final spasm as the electronic enhancement of the last line caught him full blast across the temples. He went limp.

 "Yeah well shut up and work something out for me."

 "Zaphod Beeblebrox ...?" he said weakly.

 "Er, none I'm afraid, guys," said the computer.

 He twisted the wheel sharply, the boat slewed  round  in  a  wild scything  skid beneath the cliff face and dropped to rest lightly on the rocking waves.

 Far out in the uncharted backwaters of the unfashionable  end  of the  western  spiral  arm  of  the Galaxy lies a small unregarded yellow sun.

  a was  in queue before  he everything stranger "Mmmmmwwwwwerrrrr?"

 supermarket he complete felt of  stab had   it   standing the   behind at a been thought  the and the in   Then - supermarket  was gone.  A  wave  of  claustrophobia closed in on him.  No  reaction. He  prodded  his  feelings  by thinking  that  his parents and his sister had gone. England  only  existed in his mind - his mind, stuck here in this dank smelly  steel-lined  spaceship. Nelson's Column had gone! Nelson's  Column  had  gone  and  there would  be  no  outcry,  because  there was no one left to make an outcry. From now on Nelson's Column only  existed  in  his  mind..  There was  no  way  his  imagination could feel the impact of the whole Earth having gone, it was too big. Visions of it swam sickeningly through his nauseated mind.reaction No .He  he close thought all the people to

 been.  At  least  five entirely separate and distinct expressions of shock and amazement piled up on it in a jumbled mess. His left leg, which was in  mid stride,  seemed to have difficulty in finding the floor again

 "I'm not getting you down at all am I?" he said pathetically.

 So - Arthur was about to have his head  cut  open,  Trillian  was unable to help him, and Ford and Zaphod were about to be set upon by several thugs a great deal heavier and more sharply armed than they were.

. One of these (the one Arthur now came across) supposedly  relates the  experiences  of  one Veet Voojagig, a quiet young student at the University of Maximegalon, who pursued a  brilliant  academic career  studying  ancient  philology, transformational ethics and the wave harmonic theory  of  historical  perception,  and  then, after  a  night  of  drinking  Pan  Galactic Gargle Blasters with Zaphod Beeblebrox, became increasingly obsessed with the  problem of  what  had happened to all the biros he'd bought over the past few years

 "Can we work out," said Zaphod, "from their point  of  view  what the Improbability of their rescue was?"

 Zaphod looked at him in silence  again  for  a  moment.  Then  he looked away.

 "Listen," she said, "we picked up those couple of guys ..."

 "It's translating for you. It's a Babel fish. Look it up  in  the book if you like."

 "Time,"  said  Arthur  weakly,  "is  not  currently  one  of   my problems."



 "I know," said Marvin, "you keep going on  about  it.  It  sounds awful."



. \hspace{1cm} Or is it the wind?. No. Never mind, hey, this is really exciting, so  much  to  find  out about,  so  much  to  look  forward  to,  I'm  quite  dizzy  with anticipation .

. Trillian was reminded  unavoidably  of  the  London  Underground, though it was less thoroughly squalid

 "Hi," he said.

 "Why three pints all of a sudden?"

 Lunkwill motioned him to wait.

 "OK, OK," muttered Zaphod, "let's at least give our eyes  a  good time. Computer!"

 "But that's not the point!" raged Ford. "The point is that  I  am now  a  perfectly  save penguin, and my colleague here is rapidly running out of limbs!"

 "Please do not be alarmed," it said, "by anything you see or hear around you. You are bound to feel some initial ill effects as you have been rescued from certain death at an improbability level of two  to  the power of two hundred and seventy-six thousand to one against - possibly much higher.to are a to  cruising  will against as two restoring sure what   and and   the at be  are normal  twenty-five  falling, is one we soon normality just level  power of   anyway . Thank you. Two to the power of twenty thousand to one against and falling."

 "Yeah."



 No one in the room remarked on his  peculiar  arrival,  which  is hardly  surprising  as  he wasn't there. He began to realize that the whole experience  was  merely  a  recorded  projection  which knocked six-track seventy-millimetre into a cocked hat.

 "No," said Ford and gave him a friendly smile

 "Yes," he agreed with Arthur, "no light. "How do you feel?" he asked

  Any  bloody machine  goes  and  actually finds it and we're straight out of a job aren't we? I mean what's the use of our sitting up  half  the night  arguing that there may or may not be a God if this machine only goes and  gives  us  his  bleeding  phone  number  the  next morning?". Under  law  the  Quest  for  Ultimate  Truth is quite clearly the inalienable  prerogative of your  working  thinkers. "You just let the machines get on with  the  adding  up,"  warned Majikthise,  "and  we'll  take care of the eternal verities thank you very much. You want to check your legal position you do mate

 "It's more a sort of electronic sulking machine."

 "What's that series of valleys over there?" he said.

 "It's dark," he said.

 "Well," said Zaphod airily, "it's partly the curiosity, partly  a sense  of  adventure,  but  mostly  I think it's the fame and the money ..."

 Ford, with a lightning movement, clapped  his  hand  to  Arthur's ear,  and  he  had  the  sudden  sickening  sensation of the fish slithering deep into his aural  tract.  Gasping  with  horror  he scrabbled  at  his ear for a second or so, but then slowly turned goggle-eyed with wonder. He was experiencing the aural equivalent of  looking  at  a  picture  of  two  black silhouetted faces and suddenly seeing it as a picture of a  white  candlestick.  Or  of looking  at  a  lot  of  coloured  dots on a piece of paper which suddenly resolve themselves into the figure  six  and  mean  that your  optician  is  going  to charge you a lot of money for a new pair of glasses.

". "The ship did

 "I think so," said Arthur.

 "Oh God," muttered Zaphod and slumped into a seat.

 Arthur looked down at Marvin, who now made an equally big show of turning  round  laboriously and trudging off down into the crater again muttering sour nothings to himself.

 Arthur followed the old man's finger, till he was  able  to  pick out the floating structure he was pointing out. this anything a any  indeed one  more on only about  than put betrayed though  many the   was impression sublimal was finger of that it,   one of could It.

 He was not conspicuously tall, his features were striking but not conspicuously  handsome. Perhaps it was that he smiled slightly too broadly and gave people the  unnerving  impression  that  he  was about to go for their neck..  His  hair  was  wiry  and gingerish and brushed backwards from the temples.said  behalf

 to  any often  began water eyes  of your eyes her  he him honey,"  involuntarily and for   to "Hi time when  length you Perhaps his was blink didn't talked it enough that on to.

 "Well you see,  five  million  years  ago  the  Galactic  economy collapsed, and seeing that custom-made planets are something of a luxury commodity you see ..."

 "Yeah, just show them in would you Marvin?" came another voice.

. Whatever it was raced across the  sky  in  monstrous  yellowness, tore  the  sky apart with mind-buggering noise and leapt off into the distance leaving the gaping air to shut behind it with a bang that drove your ears six feet into your skull

 Ford stared at him. "Did that robot say  Zaphod  Beeblebrox?"  he said.

 Except .to  most the lousy  you pretty  mention now "Yeah," come he of  it, said,  are minutes ..." he thought again, which required looking at the  ceiling  -  "except  some  of  the shouting  I  quite  like."  He  filled  his  lungs  and bellowed, "Resistance is .

 I'll send the robot down to get them and bring them up here. Hey Marvin!".  They're  just  a  couple of guys I expect."Look "I about "don't present time," no patting arm, Deep the she further  Zaphod,"  said speak  aliens

 Thought in this said, worry of it will.  "Now. Speak. Ask what else of me you will that I may function

 "Oh yes," said Marvin, "I mean I've asked for them to be replaced but no one ever listens."

 "Err ... what?"

 "Come on," insisted Zaphod, "I've found a way in." "In?" said Arthur in horror.

. "Yes," said a passing maniac

. When you're cruising down the road  in  the  fast  lane  and  you lazily  sail  past a few hard driving cars and are feeling pretty pleased with yourself and  then  accidentally  change  down  from fourth to first instead of third thus making your engine leap out of your bonnet in a rather ugly mess, it tends to throw  you  off your  stride  in  much  the  same way that this remark threw Ford Prefect off his

. "Look, I can't help what you may personally be in orbit  around," said Ford, "but this ship .".

 The aircar flung  itself  through  the  air  at  R17  and  above, deposited  them  next to the Heart of Gold which stood starkly on the frozen ground like a bleached bone,  and  then  precipitately hurled  itself  back  in  the  direction  whence  they  had come, presumably on important business of its own.



 The words Vogon Constructor Fleets flared  in  green  across  the screen.

 "I beg your pardon?" he spluttered.

The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy 

 "No, what?" said Arthur, who didn't what to know.

 The other three could sense it too,  but  they  could  sense  the bitter  cold  even  more  and hurried back into the Heart of Gold suffering from an acute attack of no curiosity.

"."Shush!" Ford said . "It's carrying on

 Zaphod scribbled a few sums,  crossed  them  out  and  threw  the pencil away.



 Arthur discovered to his embarrassment that he was  lying  curled up  in  a small ball on the floor with his arms wrapped round his head. He smiled weakly.

 There really is a lot of that now isn't it?

 Zaphod burst out in annoyance: "Who are they Trillian?"

 Phouchg gaped at Deep Thought.



 "No, the measurement of probability!"

 Zaphod stuck a head up for a dangerous moment.

 "We can see it," said Trillian.

  "I  am Vroomfondel, and that is not a demand, that is a solid fact! What we demand is solid facts!".  an    on after  nearby of  this salient  what  had don't do to the points things

 story Earth  said mice banging has the  the got "Yes, "Alright!" understand him, very I  Arthur, bawled and Slartibartfast all "but Vroomfondel salutary," related desk

 and with. The home of this industry was the  planet  Magrathea,  where  hyperspatial engineers  sucked  matter through white holes in space to form it into dream planets - gold planets, platinum planets, soft  rubber planets  with lots of earthquakes - all lovingly made to meet the exacting standards that the Galaxy's richest men  naturally  came to expect. And thus were created the conditions for a staggering new form of specialist industry: custom-made luxury planet building

 "Oh, the Paranoid Android," he said. "Yeah, we'll take him."

 {What's President?}

 "Thank God for that," said Arthur and relaxed.

 He trudged back up the wall of the crater

 Ford stared at him blankly in the darkness.

 The wall.

 Ford struck another match to help him search for a light  switch. Hideous alien  shapes seemed  to  throng about him, the air was thick with musty smells which sidled into his lungs without identifying themselves, and a low irritating hum kept his brain from focusing.. Arthur struggled to his feet and hugged himself apprehensively

 Arthur twisted his head to look at Ford."Hmmmm,"  means?"

 see  the the 

 don't this said, metaphor surrealism he "But  what..."  He  considered this for a moment, and then closed the book with a grim smile.

 "Potentially bright lad I thought," he said and  slumped  against the curved wall.

 "Oh, just some five-million-year-old tape that's being  broadcast at us."

 "The mice were furious?"

 "I'll give you a clue. Computer!"



 "Hey ... er, have we? Hey ... er ..."

. had just the  Galaxy appeared in    A hole.  It  was  exactly  a nothingth  of  a  second  long,  a nothingth of an inch wide, and quite a lot of million light years from end to end



 "Go away!" he shouted at a young  Vogon  guard  who  entered  the bridge  at  that  moment. The guard vanished immediately, feeling rather relieved. He was glad it wouldn't now be him who delivered the  report  they'd  just  received.  The  report was an official release which said that a wonderful new form of  spaceship  drive was  at  this moment being unveiled at a government research base on Damogran which would henceforth make all hyperspatial  express routes unnecessary.

 "It hated me because I talked to it."

 "Bat's dots, I can't work it out."

 He struck most of  the  friends  he  had  made  on  Earth  as  an eccentric,  but  a  harmless  one  --  an unruly boozer with some oddish habits. For instance he would often  gatecrash  university parties,   get   badly   drunk   and  start  making  fun  of  any astrophysicist he could find till he got thrown out.

 "About twelve minutes away,"  said  Ford,  "come  on,  I  need  a drink."

 Between them  would  be  placed  a  bottle  of  Janx  Spirit  (as immortalized  in that ancient Orion mining song "Oh don't give me none more of that Old Janx Spirit/ No, don't  you  give  me  none more  of  that  Old  Janx Spirit/ For my head will fly, my tongue will lie, my eyes will fry and I may die/ Won't you pour  me  one more of that sinful Old Janx Spirit").

"



. Many were increasingly of the opinion that they'd all made a  big mistake  in  coming  down  from the trees in the first place. And some said that even the trees had been a bad move,  and  that  no one should ever have left the oceans

 The suns blazed into the pitch of space and a low  ghostly  music floated through the bridge: Marvin was humming ironically because he hated humans so much.

 "We demand," yelled Vroomfondel, "that demarcation may or may not be the problem!"

 He had made one careless blunder though, because he had skimped a bit  on his preparatory research. The information he had gathered had led him to choose the name "Ford  Prefect"  as  being  nicely inconspicuous.than there In elegant and intelligent running experiments they subtle  planet spent inside time and  more in  man research  dolphins, fact and of 

 conducting only wheels one frighteningly on on the was their a behavioural. 

".Trillian said the "Promise?"







 "yes up "Yes," figures  punched Arthur, did

 I. They  showed  tow-to-the  power- of-Infinity-minus-one  (an  irrational  number  that  only  has a conventional meaning in Improbability physics).

 "What is your name, human?"

 In a few seconds they had disappeared from view.

 The planet beneath them was almost perfectly oblivious  of  their presence,  which  was just how they wanted it for the moment. The huge yellow somethings went unnoticed at Goonhilly,  they  passed over  Cape  Canaveral  without  a  blip, Woomera and Jodrell Bank looked straight through them - which was a pity  because  it  was exactly  the  sort  of  thing  they'd  been looking for all these years.

 The tiny life-support system computer on  his  backpack  appeared unexpectedly to have blown up.

 "It'll all end in tears, I know it," shouted Eddie after them and closed the hatchway again.

. The  fusillade  continued  for  several  seconds  at   unbearable intensity

.. er, really?" said Arthur, who was beginning to  find  the man's curious, kindly manner disconcerting. "Oh 

 er, very well," said the old  man,  slightly  taken aback, "I'll just go and get on with some of my fjords then.".. "What? Oh . 

 Ah... ! What's happening? it thought.

 They wouldn't even lift a finger to save their own grandmothers  from  the  Ravenous Bugblatter  Beast  of  Traal without orders signed in triplicate, sent in, sent back, queried, lost,  found,  subjected  to  public inquiry, lost again, and finally buried in soft peat and recycled as firelighters. Here is what to do if you want to  get a  lift  from  a  Vogon:  forget  it..  They  are  one of the most unpleasant races in the Galaxy --  not  actually  evil,  but  bad tempered, bureaucratic, officious and callous. "Vogon Constructor Fleets

. "No," said Slartibartfast, "it  won't  be,"  and  he  turned  the aircar round and headed back towards the mind-numbing wall



 Marvin started his ironical humming again.the 

 it's  fact  for   moment the   bought -  Magrathea "OK, so I've.  What  you  have  so far said nothing about is how in the Galaxy you found it. You didn't just look it up in a star  atlas, that's for sure."we're to "So it," said this die "



 Arthur, going."

. At eight o'clock on Thursday  morning  Arthur  didn't  feel  very good.  He  woke  up blearily, got up, wandered blearily round his room, opened a window, saw a bulldozer, found his  slippers,  and stomped off to the bathroom to wash

 Beneath that in Ford  Prefect's  satchel  were  a  few  biros,  a notepad, and a largish bath towel from Marks and Spencer. The say the of few a Hiker's things Hitch has to 



 subject on to Galaxy Guide.





 Bulges appeared in the fabric of space-time. Great ugly bulges.

 "Zaphod," she said, "any minute now we will be swinging round  to the daylight side of this planet," adding, "whatever it turns out to be."

.The said

 oddly  oddly was but she something," familiar,  of just "I've thought different .  It  had  a matriarchal  twang.  It  announced  itself  to  the  crew as they arrived at the airlock hatchway that would let them  out  on  the planet surface.

. Arthur gaped

 Zaphod glanced away from the mirror  screens  which  presented  a pa\-no\-ra\-mic  view  of  the blighted landscape on which the Heart of Gold had now landed

 "Look," said Arthur, "would it save you a lot of time if  I  just gave up and went mad now?"

." said the computer in a hurt tone of voice and closed down its speech channel again.. "OK, OK 

 "Oh, just trying to take an interest in the world around me, OK?" he said. "So the hours are pretty good then?" he resumed.

 "There must be some mistake," he said, "are you  not  a  greatest computer  than the Milliard Gargantubrain which can count all the atoms in a star in a millisecond?"

 Zaphod tapped impatiently on the hatch

 "Sorry, I thought you were proposing a toast," he said

 Another worried look passed between the two programmers.. Lunkwill cleared his throat

 Ford had recovered himself.

 "Yes," said Deep Thought. "Life, the  Universe,  and  Everything. There  is  an  answer.  But," he added, "I'll have to think about it."

 It sounded quite a sensible voice, but it just said, "Two to  the power  of  one  hundred thousand to one against and falling," and that was all.

 "But we've got to have a product you see," said Frankie, "I  mean ideally  we  still  need  the  Ultimate  Question in some form or other.described am second "I  Deep   as   myself  I  greatest," the such "

 "and  intoned."

 Wild cheers broke out amongst the  crowd.  Flags,  streamers  and wolf whistles sailed through the air. The narrower streets looked rather like centipedes rolled over on their backs and frantically waving their legs in the air.

 "But how are you, metalman?" said Ford.furry door with   creature  the his huge lunch  

 bounded tray.It maniac  was a grinning like.

 miserable put he    had it  been   to always and and when felt happened never This   explain able he. Bureaucratic cock-ups,  angry  men  lying  in  the  mud, indecipherable  strangers  handing  out inexplicable humiliations and an unidentified army of horsemen laughing at him in his  head - what a day. He began to fell little pricks of water behind the eyelids. He saw the bulldozer driver's  union  representative  approaching and  let his head sink back and closed his eyes.  In a high dimension of which we know nothing the mighty Khan bellowed with rage, but Mr Prosser  only  trembled  slightly and whimpered. He was trying to marshal his arguments for proving that he did not now  constitute a  mental  health  hazard  himself.. He was far from certain about this - his mind seemed to be full of noise,  horses,  smoke,  and the  stench of blood

 Arthur followed Ford's finger, and saw where it was pointing. For a moment it still didn't register, then his mind nearly blew up.

. Many respectable physicists said that they weren't going to stand for  this  -  partly  because it was a debasement of science, but mostly because they didn't get invited to those sort of parties

 "Well, there are a hundred billion stars in the Galaxy, and  only a  limited  amount  of  space  in the book's microprocessors," he said, "and no one knew much about the Earth of course."

 Ford shouted out, "Hey listen! I think we've got enough  problems on  our  own  having  you  shooting  at us, so if you could avoid laying your problems on us as well, I  think  we'd  all  find  it easier to cope!"



 "My name?" said the old man, and the same  distant  sadness  came into  his  face  again.He   paused .  "My name," he said, "... is Slartibartfast."

 In fact, Ford Prefect was a roving  researcher  for  that  wholly remarkable book The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy."You can't," Prefect, switch found and said the 

 Ford light.

 "Well surely that's his problem isn't it?"

 Arthur  didn't  notice  that  the  men  were  running  from   the bulldozers;   he  didn't  notice  that  Mr  Prosser  was  staring hectically into the sky. What Mr Prosser  had  noticed  was  that huge   yellow  somethings  were  screaming  through  the  clouds. Impossibly huge yellow somethings.

  "That  is precisely what we don't demand!"

 This wasn't fair on Ford at all. He looked backwards and forwards between  Arthur and Zaphod. "What?" he said to Zaphod. "You don't mean to say you've been on that miserable planet as well do you?"

 Eventually the last rays of the sun had vanished completely,  and he  turned.  His  face  was still illuminated from somewhere, and when Arthur looked for the source of the light he saw that a  few yards away stood a small craft of some kind - a small hovercraft, Arthur guessed. It shed a dim pool of light around it



 He stood and thought. The pub, he thought. Oh dear, the  pub.  He vaguely remembered being angry, angry about something that seemed important. He'd been telling  people  about  it,  telling  people about  it  at  great  length,  he  rather suspected: his clearest visual recollection was of glazed looks on other people's  faces.he about new bypass  had about a found Something . It had been in the pipeline for months only no one seemed to have  known about  it.  Ridiculous.  He  took  a swig of water. It would sort itself out, he'd decided, no one wanted  a  bypass,  the  council didn't have a leg to stand on. It would sort itself out.

 "Im ...important?"

 . Fook glanced impatiently at his watch

 "Meanwhile, the poor Babel  fish,  by  effectively  removing  all barriers  to  communication between different races and cultures, has caused more and bloddier  wars  than  anything  else  in  the history of creation."

 "Look, sorry - are we talking about the little white furry things with  the  cheese fixation and women standing on tables screaming in early sixties sit coms?"

 He was suspended in mid-air and  totally  invisible  to  himself. Beneath him was a pretty treelined city square, and all around it as far as the eye could see were white concrete buildings of airy spacious  design  but  somewhat  the  worse  for wear - many were cracked and stained with rain.that sun  the were and was  the a   the it odd trees, fact   by danced that however through the around the all  quietly excited   cheerful humming square people shining, fresh probably caused   were streets was  the  the with Today and all buildings  lightly. Somewhere a band  was playing, brightly coloured flags were fluttering in the breeze and the spirit of carnival was in the air.can said Thought, it Deep "Yes," "I 

."

 "No light," said Arthur Dent. "Dark, no light."

 "I don't know. I don't know at all. I think we're on some kind of spaceship."

 "Damn their fun!" he hooted and ran  out  of  the  pub  furiously waving  a  nearly  empty beer glass. He made no friends at all in the pub that lunchtime.

 The mice bristled.

 "There is no problem," said Deep Thought with magnificent ringing tones.  "I am simply the second greatest computer in the Universe of Space and Time."



 "Tell me," inquired Arthur,  "do  you  get  on  well  with  other robots?"

 Arthur gave the rest of the pub another wan smile.  The  rest  of the  pub  frowned  at  him. A man waved at him to stop smiling at them and mind his own business.one of to pages jabbed at 

 Ford it Arthur and the. "It says: Sensational new breakthrough in Improbability  Physics. As  soon  as  the  ship's drive reaches Infinite Improbability it passes through every point in the Universe. Be the envy of  other major governments. Wow, this is big league stuff."

. It was the size of a small city

 Ford pressed a large red button at the bottom of the  screen  and words  began  to  undulate  across it. At the same time, the book began to speak the entry as well in a still quiet measured voice. This is what the book said.



 The boat sped on across the water. It would be some  time  before it   reached   its   destination  because  Damogran  is  such  an inconveniently  arranged  planet.  middling   by  islands   wide  nothing  desert consists of separated large It pretty but but to ocean stretches very  annoyingly of.have   penny got!  for 

  drawn you council  "I'll hung, whipped! I'll  And the boiled   sue.".....  until  you've  had enough. "You barbarians!" he yelled..

 "Fish?"

 "Did you ever go to a place . "Oh yes," said Slartibartfast..  I think it was called Norway?"



 One  of  the  major  difficulties  Trillian  experienced  in  her relationship  with Zaphod was learning to distinguish between him pretending to be stupid just  to  get  people  off  their  guard, pretending  to be stupid because he couldn't be bothered to think and wanted someone else to  do  it  for  him,  pretending  to  be outrageously  stupid  to  hide  the  fact that he actually didn't understand what was going on, and really being genuinely  stupid. He  was renowned for being amazingly clever and quite clearly was so - but not all the time, which obviously worried him, hence the act.proffered be   He rather people puzzled than. This above all appeared to Trillian to be genuinely  stupid,  but she could no longer be bothered to argue about it.

 "You know what's happened now of course?"

 "Listen," said  Ford,  who  was  still  engrossed  in  the  sales brochure, "they make a big thing of the ship's cybernetics.". A new generation  of  Sirius   Cybernetics   Corporation   robots   and computers, with the new GPP feature



 "Let me tell you the whole story. It'll take a little time."

 "For lots of money," said Zaphod.

 "Now it is such a bizarrely improbable coincidence that  anything so  mind\-bog\-gin\-gly useful could have evolved purely by chance that some thin\-kers have chosen to see it as the  final  and  clinching proof of the non-existence of God.

.. Finally he said, "Well the hours are good ."

 "Well, I suppose we'd  better  be  going  then,  hadn't  we?"  he suggested

 A sudden commotion destroyed the moment: the door flew  open  and two  angry  men  wearing the coarse faded-blue robes and belts of the Cruxwan University burst into the room, thrusting  aside  the ineffectual flunkies who tried to bar their way.young  shouted elbowing a the in throat  the  secretary of  "We  men admission!"   the .

 "Yeah, well that's a very  sweet  thought  Trillian,"  complained Zaphod,   "but   do   you   really  think  it's  wise  under  the circumstances? I mean, here we are on the run and everything,  we must  have  the police of half the Galaxy after us by now, and we stop to pick up hitch hikers

". went  soon heard us please  them,   well catalogue

 "Don't  excited," round afternoon only "Oh  "can as a I said Loonquawl, Question?"

 Ford, alright," see alright, the yesterday just  "Look, you "it's to tell  I get straight as.  You hadn't exactly gone out of your way to call attention to them  had  you?  I  mean  like  actually telling anybody or anything."

 Ford made for the door.

 "A who?"

 "Now," said Deep Thought.

.". Panic be could 



 be, "Don't "Could."

 But it is the story of that terrible stupid catastrophe and  some of its consequences

" Prosser  was worried..making sense one He that lot them  thought a wasn't.. as "Well no, such .

". A small voice said, "Welcome to lunch, Earth creature

.mysterious - could index  button    dead

 see to ship Ford up policemen spontaneously giving most sense   two seemed and here a screen  and have  the you this "You and  lights  press found the  you ."

 Slowly, nervously, he walked towards the first one. The body  lay reassuringly  still  as  he  approached  it, and continued to lie reassuringly still as he reached it and put his foot down on  the Kill-O-Zap gun that still dangled from its limp fingers.

 "But why?" said Ford. "What's so important about having it?"

 Ford looked across to Mr Prosser, and suddenly a  wicked  thought struck him.



 Curiously enough, the dolphins had long known  of  the  impending destruction  of  the  planet  Earth and had made many attempts to alert mankind of the danger; but  most  of  their  communications were  misinterpreted  as  amusing  attempts to punch footballs or whistle for tidbits, so they eventually  gave  up  and  left  the Earth by their own means shortly before the Vogons arrived.

 "Charming man," he said. "I wish I had  a  daughter  so  I  could forbid her to marry one ..."

..

". "Don't worry," said Ford, "they haven't started yet

 "I'm trying to baby, I'm trying  to,"  is  what  Ford  invariably replied on these occasions.

 "But what are supposed to do with a manically depressed robot?"

 "Er, yeah."

 "O Deep Thought Computer," he said, "the task  we  have  designed you  to  perform  is this.to We you want us tell  ..." he paused, "... the Answer!"

 Ford skidded down a beam of light and span round trying to find a source  for  the  voice  but could see nothing he could seriously believe in. even they their the would this for for men selected birth Both children gasping those lives had it, squirming answer,  so    a of the who like   had found had themselves  excited been been moment, at  .



 "If we're unlucky," said  Ford  grimly,  "the  captain  might  be serious  in  his  threat  that  he's going to read us some of his poetry first ...voice circuits life again The sprang to "

.went it  of head as pain  "Aaaaaaarggggghhhhhh!" lumps through wrenching 

 back his  Ford Prefect, thumped. He could dimly see beside him Arthur lolling and rolling  in  his  seat.  He  clenched  his teeth.

 "Most leading theologians claim that this argument is a  load  of dingo's  kidneys,  but  that didn't stop Oolon Colluphid making a small fortune when he used it as the central theme of  his  best- selling book Well That About Wraps It Up For God

 "It was at a party," pursued Arthur.



 Pinpoints of light  played  across  the consoles  and  reflected  in four pairs of eyes that stared up at the external monitor screens

 A moment later, the last planet in the  catalogue  vanished  from beneath them and the solid world resolved itself again.

. Tiny furry little hands were squeezing themselves through the cracks, their fingers were inkstained; tiny voices chattered insanely. Arthur had jammed himself against the door to the cubicle, trying to  hold  it  closed,  but  it was ill fitting

. Finally: "No," he said firmly

 "What?" they said

 Hence a phrase which has passed into hitch hiking  slang,  as  in "Hey,  you  sass  that  hoopy  Ford  Prefect? There's a frood who really knows where his towel is." (Sass: know, be aware of, meet, have   sex  with;  hoopy:  really  together  guy;  frood:  really amazingly together guy.)

 A pained look crawled across one of Zaphod's faces and on to  the other one.

 The President in particular is very much a figurehead - he wields no  real  power  whatsoever. They couldn't be more wrong.  On  those  criteria Zaphod  Beeblebrox  is  one of the most successful Presidents the Galaxy has ever had -  he  has  already  spent  two  of  his  ten Presidential  years  in  prison  for  fraud.. His job is not to wield power but to draw attention  away  from  it. Very very few people realize that the President and the Government have  virtually  no power  at  all, and of these very few people only six know whence ultimate political power is wielded. Most of the others  secretly believe that the ultimate decision-making process is handled by a computer

 One cop shouted to the other, "Shall we shoot them  again  for  a bit?"



 They waited.

 Arthur awoke to the sound of argument and  went  to  the  bridge. Ford was waving his arms about

 Er, excuse me, who am I?

 The whole Poghril tribe had died out from famine except  for  one last man who died of cholesterol poisoning some weeks later

 Ford couldn't sleep. Was there a reason behind it? There would be no point in asking Zaphod, he never appeared to have  a  reason  for anything  he  did  at all: he had turned unfathomably into an art form. Fifteen years of virtual imprisonment were over, just as he was finally beginning to give up hope. Knocking about  with Zaphod for a bit promised to be a lot of fun, though there seemed to be  something  faintly  odd  about  his  semi-cousin  that  he couldn't put his finger on. The fact that he had become President of the Galaxy was frankly astonishing, as was the manner  of  his leaving the post. He was too excited about being back  on  the road again.  He  attacked  everything  in  life  with  a   mixture   of extraordinary  genius  and  naive  incompetence  and it was often difficult to tell which was which

 "They'd have to be," agreed Ford.

 "Fine," said Arthur, "when can I get home?"

 R is a velocity measure, defined as a reasonable speed of  travel that  is  consistent  with health, mental wellbeing and not being more than say five minutes  late.  It  is  therefore  clearly  an almost  infinitely  variable  figure  according to circumstances, since the first two factors vary not only with speed taken as  an absolute,  but  also  with  awareness of the third factor. Unless handled with tranquility this equation can result in considerable stress, ulcers and even death.

. Ford looked over his shoulder



. There was absolutely nothing on them

 "Exactly where we were, I think ..." as an still all landscape Trillian, blighted beneath  the which Magrathea along  said the of them image about  scooted mirrors them.illusion "A "an catalogue," Trillian, 

 said."



 A motor whirred.

 "Yes well so I expect were  the  dogs  and  cats  and  duckbilled platypuses, but ...screens up "Shut said Zaphod, the "

 up," show "and."

 The voice snapped off

 The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy is a very  unevenly  edited book and contains many passages that simply seemed to its editors like a good idea at the time

. The room folded flat about  him,  spun  around,  shifted  out  of existence and left him sliding into his own navel

 "I don't know. Just someone."

 "Just shut up and give us a view of the planet again."

 "Don't worry," Marvin assured him, "they will."





"..relaxed minus chirped spread the   He   seconds luck  "impact seat computer, his arms the  

 and two thirty.boat to day  quietly about Damogran  he to wonderful  smiled  himself a of    the it  across going was skipped what be   seas.

 There was a mood of immense excitement thrilling through  all  of them.  Together  and between them they had gone to and beyond the furthest limits of physical laws,  restructured  the  fundamental fabric  of  matter,  strained,  twisted  and  broken  the laws of possibility and impossibility, but still the greatest  excitement of  all  seemed to be to meet a man with an orange sash round his neck. (An orange sash  was  what  the  President  of  the  Galaxy traditionally  wore.) It might not even have made much difference to them if they'd known exactly how much power the  President  of the  Galaxy actually wielded: none at all. Only six people in the Galaxy knew that the job of the Galactic  President  was  not  to wield power but to attract attention away from it.

 "So I reckon, what's so secret that I can't let  anybody  know  I know  it,  not  the Galactic Government, not even myself? And the answer is I don't  know.  Obviously.  But  I  put  a  few  things together  and  I can begin to guess. When did I decide to run for President? Shortly after the death of President Yooden Vranx. You remember Yooden, Ford?"

 He did this, and was rather startled  to  discover  that  he  had managed   to   create  the  long  sought  after  golden  Infinite Improbability generator out of thin air.



 For a quick encore they measured the level of hydrogen emissions in the surrounding  cubic  parsec  of  space and then shut down again in boredom. A spasm of despair shook the robot's body as he turned. Marvin regarded it with cold loathing whilst his  logic  circuits chattered with disgust and tinkered with the concept of directing physical violence against it Further circuits cut in saying,  Why bother?  What's  the point? Nothing is worth getting involved in. Further circuits amused themselves  by  analysing  the  molecular components  of the door, and of the humanoids' brain cells.

 "It's fantastic ..." he said, and his own voice rattled his ears. Sound carried badly in this thin atmosphere. "Desolate hole if you ask me," said Ford. "I could have more  fun in  a  cat  litter."  He  felt  a mounting irritation. Of all the planets in all the star systems of all the  Galaxy  -  didn't  he just  have  to turn up at a dump like this after fifteen years of being a castaway? Not even  a  hot  dog  stand  in  evidence.  He stooped  down  and  picked up a cold clot of earth, but there was nothing underneath it worth crossing thousands of light years  to look at.

 He was busy staring at two white mice sitting in what looked like whisky  glasses  on  the  table. He heard the silence and glanced around at everyone.this vision about and 

  hard to "rotate angle don't  eighty talk   cross Zaphod, "Computer!" shouted doubts his about and Zaphod one-  thought degrees seemed.

 The voice continued.



 Ford ignored him and stared out  of  the  window,  so the barman looked instead at Arthur who shrugged helplessly and said nothing.. The barman of the Horse and Groom didn't  deserve  this  sort  of treatment,  he  was a dignified old man. He pushed his glasses up his nose and blinked at Ford Prefect

 "Right," said Ford, "I'm going to have a look.see?"

 "

 do "What Zaphod said "No, you course breezily not,". "Well, I may have just dropped in briefly, you know, on my way somewhere ..."

 Arthur blinked at him.

 "Where are you going?"

 "I won't enjoy it," said Marvin.

 "No you wouldn't," said Frankie mouse, "you'd be  programmed  not to."

. And so the system broke down,  the Empire  collapsed,  and  a  long  sullen  silence  settled over a billion worlds, disturbed only by the pen scratchings of scholars as  they laboured into the night over smug little treaties on the value of a planned political economy.became collapsed image on successful was Magrathea chairs to  men was in their time of poverty

 But abject the the  rest richest to the reduced and soon Galaxy  itself and A   this new astounding planet mirrors

 of in appeared all despair.

 "Huh?" said Arthur.



  Clear  in the distance behind them two silver darts were climbing through the atmosphere towards the ship. A quick  change of  magnification  brought  them into close focus - two massively real rockets thundering through the sky. Ford tapped Zaphod on  the  shoulder  and  pointed  at  the  rear screen.. The suddenness of it was shocking

 Still," he added on further reflection, "I can understand that.". I wouldn't trust myself  further  than  I  could spit a rat."No," he of "I through?"

 my that, don't go Earthman?" "Did  myself at  "Do  last, letting said you we be think to into secrets

 demanded.

 "You know," said Arthur, "it's  at  times  like  this,  when  I'm trapped  in a Vogon airlock with a man from Betelgeuse, and about to die of asphyxication in deep space  that  I  really  wish  I'd listened to what my mother told me when I was young

.of said on they door flashed  Almost side entered

  Ford,  history,"  together above "Ancient  immediately, room and the we  the at Betelgeuse a the light "when other  were . The Arcturan megafreighters used to carry most of the bulky trade between the Galactic Centre and the outlying  regions The  Betelgeuse  trading  scouts used to find the markets and the Arcturans would supply them. There was  a  lot  of  trouble  with space  pirates  before they were wiped out in the Dordellis wars, and the megafreighters had to be equipped with the most fantastic defence  shields known to Galactic science. They were real brutes of ships, and huge. In orbit round a planet  they  would  eclipse the sun.

  Motionless  they  hung, huge, heavy, steady in the sky, a blasphemy against nature. Many people went straight into shock as their  minds  tried  to  encompass what they were looking at.. in sky the The don't the ships much in hung that bricks same. The great ships hung motionless in the air, over every nation  on Earth

". "And I will carry on  jumping  on  them,"  yelled  Arthur,  still running,  "until  I get blisters, or I can think of anything even more unpleasant to do, and then 

". "I'm  waiting,"  interrupted  Eddie.

". "Well, perhaps we're both going mad

 "Nothing."

 "Oh, yeah," said Zaphod, "those couple of guys."

 "Admittedly," said Arthur, "they're longer than  I  usually  like them, but ..."

 Ford suddenly felt the moment slipping away



 Then  the  old man tried patiently to explain.

 "Oh yes," said the old man mildly.

 "What?" cried Slartibartfast, aghast. "You can't mean that!  I've got a thousand glaciers poised and ready to roll over Africa!"

 Trillian hugged herself, shivered and  frowned..ship,  of yards was she the the could hundred direction and unexpected out still but a a "Because her so sworn have  of glanced see slight in corner She could when  that  movement eye, silent, and   she  all  them

... because ... I think it might be because if I knew  I wouldn't be able to look for them."

 "You hear enough about yourself as it is."

 Arthur was still lying in the curve of the  floor  where  he  had fallen. He didn't look up. He just lay panting.

 The other kids at school nicknamed  him Ix,  which  in the language of Betelgeuse Five translates as "boy who is not able satisfactorily to explain what a  Hrung  is,  nor why it should choose to collapse on Betelgeuse Seven". Because Ford never learned to say his original name,  his  father eventually  died  of  shame, which is still a terminal disease in some parts of the Galaxy.

. Arthur stared round him wildly

 "Going to watch the match this afternoon then?"

". "Was it?" said Zaphod

 "I've a terrible  memory for species.only planet one persevered  had "We "

 a know the called "I  at home," sun Earth came  you ever from."

 They were sitting in a  plush  waiting  room  full  of  glass-top tables and design awards.

 Arthur glanced around and suddenly yelped.

. The Computer console blotched  and  cracked, the  walls  flickered  and  crumbled and the room crashed upwards into its own ceiling .

 She sighed and punched up a star map on  the  visiscreen  so  she could make it simple for him, whatever his reasons for wanting it to be that way

  Such  a  system  was  fail-safe  in  all circumstances other than total feedback  malfunction,  which  was unheard of. Ford poked around  in  it  in  considerable  astonishment.  These miniature suit computers usually had the full back-up of the main computer back on the ship, with which they were  directly  linked through  the  sub-etha.

 "But I don't want him to!"

 "OK," he said

 "Terrific," said Arthur.

". "London," insisted Arthur, "Islington

.". It may interest you . there in the distance in front of us. No, we've been awakened to perform just one extraordinary commission   for  very .  special  clients from another dimension. "No no, good heavens no," exclaimed the old man, "no, the  Galaxy isn't  nearly  rich  enough  to  support  us  yet.

"

.A welcome

 asked fly  would you "Can her?" meal pleasantly Ford.

 "Who ... who are you?" stammered Arthur.

 "Yes," declaimed Deep Thought, "I said I'd have  to  think  about it,  didn't  I? And it occurs to me that running a programme like this is bound to create an enormous amount of  popular  publicity for  the whole area of philosophy in general. Everyone's going to have their own theories about what answer I'm eventually to  come up  with,  and who better to capitalize on that media market than you yourself? So long as you can keep disagreeing with each other violently  enough  and  slagging  each  other  off in the popular press, you can keep yourself on the gravy  train  for  life.  How does that sound?"

 "I'd guessed that," said Zaphod."



 Those who study the complex interplay of cause and effect in  the history  of  the Universe say that this sort of thing is going on all the time, but that we are powerless to prevent it.

. Arthur thought about  this  for  a  second,  and  then  his  face cleared

 "Don't bother please," said Trillian."It 

 tough Deep said for He assignment," was mildly

 a paused Thought effect.

 "There really is one," confirmed Deep Thought.

 He rummaged around in a pile of debris and  pulled  out  a  large perspex  block  with his name on it and a model of Norway moulded into it.

 "Excuse me," he said to him, "what is your name by the way?"

 Even light, which travels  so  fast  that  it  takes  most  races thousands  of years to realize that it travels at all, takes time to journey between the stars. It takes  eight  minutes  from  the star  Sol to the place where the Earth used to be, and four years more to arrive at Sol's nearest stellar neighbour, Alpha Proxima.bar and nearest he enormous drinks an for lunge then laugh of with  a wildly 

  would round reply "Green buy grin, ones!" wicked suddenly the.





 It was discovered by a lucky chance, and then  developed  into  a governable  form  of  propulsion  by  the  Galactic  Government's research team on Damogran.

"

 "That's odd."

 "Trillian," he said, "is this sort of thing going to happen every time we use the Improbability drive?"

 Arthur tried to gauge the speed at which  they  were  travelling, but  the  blackness  outside  was  absolute and he was denied any reference points. The sense of motion was so soft and  slight  he could almost believe they were hardly moving at all.

 "And are you?"

 "Come on," said Eddie sternly.

 "No, no," said Ford, "it's just that the world's about to end."

  government "Which..." started Ford again.

 "Recognize it?"

 As soon as Mr Prosser realized  that  he  was  substantially  the loser  after  all,  it  was  as if a weight lifted itself off his shoulders: this was more like the world as he knew it. He sighed.

 "Er, economic recession?"

 The scene around them was  currently  plunged  into  gloom.  Dark mists   swirled   round   them   and  elephantine  shapes  lurked indistinctly in the shadows. The air was occasionally  rent  with the  sounds  of  illusory beings murdering other illusory beings. Presumably enough people must have liked this sort  of  thing  to make it a paying proposition.

". "This must be Thursday," said Arthur musing to  himself,  sinking low over his beer, "I never could get the hang of Thursdays





 "I think I'll just take another walk," he said.the how of to see Altairan than a 

 less knew He thirty day the.. Ford wished that a flying saucer would  arrive  soon  because  he knew  how to flag flying saucers down and get lifts from them

. "An awesome prospect, Phouchg," agreed the first man, and  Arthur suddenly   realized   that  he  was  watching  a  recording  with subtitles

 "Look, what is this?" said Zaphod.

 No answer.



 "Well?" she said.

 "The Ultimate Question?"

  But if it's mostly lousy," he said, slowly giving the words time to reach their mark, "then why do you do it?  What  is it?  The  girls?  The  leather? The machismo? Or do you just find that coming to terms with the mindless tedium of it all  presents an interesting challenge?".Ford at can I  tell

 "Sure, good "you're "No that, hurriedly, interrupted  yes," ."

 Arthur  and  Ford  opened  their  eyes  and   looked   about   in considerable surprise.

." offered Phouchg weakly.... "Well, you know, it's just Everything .

 "Welcome," said Slartibartfast as the tiny  speck  that  was  the aircar,  travelling  now at three times the speed of sound, crept imperceptibly forward into the mindboggling space, "welcome,"  he said, "to our factory floor.a tiny  flinging his and "



 tear notebook "Oh Phouchg aside muttered wiping away.

 "Resistance is useless!" bellowed the guard.

 You've got to build bypasses.".  "It's  a bypass. "What do you mean, why's it got to be built?" he  said

.to top He was  caught took  what and a come the join head ground a later ridge him seconds  rapidly of them the  of them, to round and or waving to it  small relieved sharply his black they Zaphod second realize and and happened in had so dwindling several sight when behind saw him

 distance on point  standing twisted .discern and seemed  the to  alarm  was  but in and headed  be He it, any suddenly dipped gasped downwards certain at unable clear collision to   as a course   peered aircraft what sharply. The next thing he was  aware  of  was  an insane  silver  blur  that seemed to surround him

 "Look," said Arthur, "I'm a bit upset about that."



 "Slartibartfast?"





 "That's right!" shouted Vroomfondel, "we demand  rigidly  defined areas of doubt and uncertainty!"

 "The mere thought," growled Mr Prosser,  "hadn't  even  begun  to speculate,"  he  continued,  settling  himself  back,  "about the merest possibility of crossing my mind."



 The marketing division of the Sirius Cybernetics Corporation defines a robot as "Your Plastic Pal Who's Fun To Be With. The Encyclopaedia Galactica  defines  a  robot  as  a  mechanical apparatus  designed  to  do  the  work  of  a  man."

 What are you after?". I take it you're  not here for the sheer industrial archaeology of it all. "Alright, just supposing there's something

 "Computer!" shouted Zaphod.

 "We are the ones who will hear," said Phouchg, "the answer to the great question of Life ...!"

 He stuttered for a moment and then  pulled himself together.. Mr Prosser's mouth opened and closed a couple of times while  his mind  was  for  a  moment  filled  with inexplicable but terribly attractive visions of Arthur Dent's  house  being  consumed  with fire  and  Arthur himself running screaming from the blazing ruin with at least three hefty spears protruding  from  his  back.  Mr Prosser  was often bothered with visions like these and they made him feel very nervous

 By a curious  coincidence,  None  at  all  is  exactly  how  much suspicion  the  ape-descendant  Arthur  Dent  had that one of his closest friends was not descended from an ape, but  was  in  fact from  a  small  planet in the vicinity of Betelgeuse and not from Guildford as he usually claimed.

 "Come," called the old man, "come now or you will be late."

 In fact what he  was  really  looking  out  for  when  he  stared distractedly  into the night sky was any kind of flying saucer at all.

  Various pretend  ones  flitted  silently  by, like mountain goats.. Time  blossomed,  matter  shrank  away. Primal light exploded, splattering space-time as with gobbets of junket



 The other reason was that this device was in fact that most remarkable of all books ever to come out of the great  publishing  corporations of Ursa Minor - The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy.- end; electronic with  squat Electronic of black one he Sub-Etha which and the Thumb  short the a rod, he calculator looked matt  smooth dials flat couple    a Sens-O-Matic and Besides rather at    a a    an  and like switches had.. The reason why it was published in the  form of  a  micro  sub  meson  electronic component is that if it were printed in normal book form, an interstellar  hitch  hiker  would require several inconveniently large buildings to carry it around in. This had about a hundred tiny flat press  buttons  and  a  screen about  four  inches  square on which any one of a million "pages" could be summoned  at  a  moment's  notice. It nestled in the darkness inside a leather satchel which Ford Prefect wore habitually round his neck.fitted friendly it  reasons complicated, It plastic  words into it this cover and one why insanely the  on large Panic looked the  snug in was the of  .his he contents them Ford Prefect's the and was head, fact top

 were Earth for scripts out of sozzled of keeping any sitting to he now pop eyes a plays a which man have couple auditioning next The would bit by stuffed satchel interesting quite Ford why he concealed in was of dog-eared is in made The pretended  physicist's for by.  His  eyes waved their way up to Ford.

 "What?" shouted Arthur. Suddenly Ford's spell was broken.  Arthur looked wildly around him and ran to the window.

 "... is a golden sky ..."

 "Get off," said Ford, "They're ours,"  giving  him  a  look  that would have an Algolian Suntiger get on with what it was doing.



. But at that moment the guard renewed his grip and  continued  his original  purpose of lugging his prisoners to the airlock. He was obviously quite touched

 After a moment a voice replied, "It isn't easy being a cop!"

 Slartibartfast coughed politely.

 "Now wait a minute," he said, "that's just  the  start  you  see, there's more to it than that you see ...said "

 incredulously "Slept?" Arthur.

 But the story of this terrible, stupid Thursday, the story of its extraordinary   consequences,   and   the  story   of  how  these consequences are inextricably intertwined  with  this  remarkable book begins very simply.

 They both sat on the pavement and watched with a  certain  unease as  huge  children bounced heavily along the sand and wild horses thundered through the sky taking  fresh  supplies  of  reinforced railings to the Uncertain Areas.

 "Did it have oceans?"

 He slumped against the wall again and carried on  the  tune  from where he left off.

 "Howl howl gargle howl gargle howl howl howl gargle  howl  gargle howl  howl  gargle  gargle  howl gargle gargle gargle howl slurrp uuuurgh should have a good time. Message repeats.  This  is  your captain   speaking,   so  stop  whatever  you're  doing  and  pay attention. First of all I see from our instruments that we have a couple of hitchhikers aboard. Hello wherever you are. I just want to make it totally clear that you  are  not  at  all  welcome.  I worked  hard to get where I am today, and I didn't become captain of a Vogon constructor ship simply so I could turn it into a taxi service  for  a load of degenerate freeloaders. I have sent out a search party, and as soon that they find you I will put  you  off the ship. If you're very lucky I might read you some of my poetry first.

. Damogran, secret home of the Heart of Gold

 The PA fell silent again and its  echo  drifted  off  across  the land. The huge ships turned slowly in the sky with easy power. On the underside of each a hatchway opened, an empty black space.

 Zaphod stepped through the wall of the globe and relaxed  on  the sofa.  He  spread his two arms lazily along the back and with the third brushed some dust off his knee.  His  heads  looked  about, smiling;  he put his feet up. At any moment, he thought, he might scream.

 "And there we are."."  His fingers tapped some more keys.I know enter  to "I'd name about want  have so thought Vogons,  "You  so."

 Ford shrugged.

 "Good grief," said Arthur, "is this  really  the  interior  of  a flying saucer?"

 "The computers were index linked to  the  Galactic  stock  market prices  you  see, so that we'd all be revived when everybody else had rebuilt the economy enough to  afford  our  rather  expensive services."

 Arthur looked up.

 "Well that's bureaucracy for you," he added.

. They watched for a moment in silence, but Zaphod was fidgety with excitement

 The  ship  twisted  sharply  and  rocketed upwards.crew were violently  back  across  hurled The . Ford's copy of The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy smashed into another  section  of the control console with the combined result that the guide started to explain to anyone who cared  to  listen about  the best ways of smuggling Antarean parakeet glands out of Antares (an Antarean parakeet gland stuck on a small stick  is  a revolting  but much sought after cocktail delicacy and very large sums of money are often paid for them by  very  rich  idiots  who want  to  impress  other very rich idiots), and the ship suddenly dropped out of the sky like a stone

 He tossed over The Hitch Hiker's Guide to  the  Galaxy  and  then curled  himself  up into a foetal ball to prepare himself for the jump.

 "What was it?"

 "One day, young Zaphod here decides to raid  one.mere scooter stratosphere    kid On a for work, a tri-jet  designed. I mean forget it, it was crazier than a mad monkey. I went along for  the  ride because  I'd  got  some  very safe money on him not doing it, and didn't want him coming back with fake evidence.into of weeks, a conkers  marched the something what tri-jet don't matter to totally up megafreighter   a know in  toy pistols crossed  into still  bridge on our way how,  in three  waving got had I  and  demanded which  souped.  A  wilder thing  I have not known. Lost me a year's pocket money. For what? Conkers." "The captain was this really amazing  guy,  Yooden  Vranx,"  said Zaphod.food, really of course,  and time Galaxy the of incredible    we   the had of just most from gave - parts booze stuff  "He conkers us lots.  Then  he  teleported  us  back. Into the maximum security wing of Betelgeuse state prison. He was  a  cool guy. Went on to become President of the Galaxy."

 "Nothing. Nothing's the matter. Listen to me - I've got  to  tell you  the most important thing you've ever heard. to you the I've now, in  saloon the Horse you to and got and tell I've got Groom tell."



 Ford stared at Arthur, and Arthur was astonished to find that his will  was  beginning  to  weaken. He didn't realize that this was because of an old drinking game that Ford learned to play in  the hyperspace  ports  that  served the madranite mining belts in the star system of Orion Beta. The game was not unlike the Earth game called  Indian  Wrestling, and was played like this:

 "Resistance is useless!"

 "Because," shouted the cop, "it's going to be  very  intelligent, and  quite  interesting  and  humane!  Now  either  you  all give yourselves up now and let us beat you up a bit, though  not  very much  of  course  because  we  are  firmly  opposed  to  needless violence, or we blow up this entire planet and  possibly  one  or two others we noticed on our way out here!"

 "This is a recorded announcement," it said, "as I'm afraid  we're all out at the moment.thanks Magrathea  for of The visit you esteemed commercial council your ..."

 "None at  all,"  said  Mr  Prosser,  and  stormed  nervously  off wondering why his brain was filled with a thousand hairy horsemen all shouting at him.

 "What?" said Arthur.

 Arthur couldn't bear any more. He had got up again.

. "Er .



 "No," said the old man, "that's just perfectly  normal  paranoia. Everyone in the Universe has that.they  wide   a As seemed circular became that  "

 hundred fifty about ridge  it be yards approached and ground -  to  higher crater a of. Round the outside of  the  crater  the  sloping ground  was  spattered with black and red lumps. They stopped and looked at a piece.wet was It . It was rubbery.

 came,  his  but astonishment, curiosity  his They not.

 "Well, do you think this is Southend?"

 "Oh," said Trillian.

 "Yeah, but that's one wild coincidence isn't it?"



 "You choose a cold night to visit our dead planet," he said.

.it what  was was Zaphod loved he at

 best effect:.I'd trust him Earth," up it the Ford



 "Myself said want  you if end coming of. "Yes, I know there's a planet there

 "What computer is this of which you speak?" he asked

 "Perhaps it's a trap



 "How better to disguise their real natures,  and  how  better  to guide  your thinking.down bit enormous the   dropping - effect cumulative  a dead is it's finely maze eating  unexpectedly the myxomatosis, the cheese, of wrong way, calculated if ."

 "Hey, come and take a look at this.". "Ford!" he hissed



 Lunkwill and Fook blinked at each other.

 Prostetnic Vogon Jeltz was a fairly typical Vogon in that he  was thoroughly vile. Also, he did not like hitch hikers.



 "Just a couple of guys we seem to have picked up in open  space," she said. "Section ZZ9 Plural Z Alpha."

 "So all your men are going to be standing around  all  day  doing nothing?"

 The bottle would then be  refilled.  The  game  would  be  played again. And again.



 "What, the question?" said Arthur.

 "Stolen?" mimicked Marvin.way  figures 

 corridor a  four up looking out for a Half mile away,. They emerged into a wide open-plan computer bay. They glanced about wildly.

 Beside it stood another one.

 "What's so unpleasant about being drunk?"

 "You'll like the bypass."

 "Listen, it might be important. "Shush!" said Ford."

 "I don't want to die now!" he yelled. "I've still got a headache! I  don't  want  to go to heaven with a headache, I'd be all cross and wouldn't enjoy it!"

 "Suits me fine!" shouted Zaphod back and dived down  a  wide  gap between two data process units. "We don't want to shoot you, Beeblebrox!" shouted the figure

". "I don't know, I didn't listen

 "Missiles? Don't make me laugh

 "It means we must be on to something!"

 There was a tap at Zaphod's door. It slid open.

 Nestling quietly on top of the towel in Ford  Prefect's  satchel, the Sub-Etha Sens-O-Matic began to wink more quickly. Miles above the surface of the planet the huge yellow somethings began to fan out.  At  Jodrell  Bank,  someone  decided it was time for a nice relaxing cup of tea.

 Ford Prefect was desperate that any flying saucer  at  all  would arrive soon because fifteen years was a long time to get stranded anywhere, particularly somewhere as  mindboggingly  dull  as  the Earth.

 Its main console was installed in a specially designed  executive office,   mounted   on  an  enormous  executive  desk  of  finest ultramahagony  topped  with  rich  ultrared  leather.  The   dark carpeting   was  discreetly  sumptuous,  exotic  pot  plants  and tastefully engraved prints of the principal computer  programmers and  their  families  were deployed liberally about the room, and stately windows looked out upon a tree-lined public square.

 Many people have speculated that if we knew exactly why the bowl of  petunias had thought that we would know a lot more about the nature of the universe than we do now. Curiously enough, the only thing that went through  the  mind  of the bowl of petunias as it fell was Oh no, not again

 "And Everything ...!"



 Trillian glared an upset glare at him, and disappeared again.



. "And that's what we are  currently  in  orbit  around,"  insisted Zaphod

  She  scrabbled   at   the   buttons   on   the Improbability flight path screen. Trillian  gasped.

 talk  said me has importantly, to towel immense a life

 psychological "Life," "don't More about value  Marvin,.  For some reason, if a strag (strag: non-hitch hiker) discovers that a hitch hiker has his towel with him, he will automatically  assume that  he  is  also  in  possession of a toothbrush, face flannel, soap, tin of biscuits, flask, compass, map, ball of string,  gnat spray,  wet  weather gear, space suit etc., etc. Furthermore, the strag will then happily lend the hitch hiker any of  these  or  a dozen  other  items  that the hitch hiker might accidentally have "lost". What the strag will think is that any man who  can  hitch the length and breadth of the galaxy, rough it, slum it, struggle against terrible odds, win through, and  still  knows  where  his towel is is clearly a man to be reckoned with.

 Arthur frowned at him. "But you shot at us! There  were  missiles ..." he said.

.  meeting am know said resistance

 picked  I a doing but "Yeah, I   Ford reached insisted here?"

  it this sounds agreed no and silly down that," what if "I "Ford," question, don't He thought up, Arthur,.

"

. They were passing through hyperspace

. large. We are about to pass through a gateway into a vast tract of hyperspace. He continued: "I should warn you that the chamber we are about to pass  into  does  not  literally exist within our planet.. It is a little too .".you

 may disturb It . Two hundred and thirty-nine thousand lightly fried eggs fell  out of  it  too,  materializing in a large woobly heap on the famine- struck land of Poghril in the Pansel system

 "Earthman," he said, "we are now deep in the heart of Magrathea."



"

. "Ah," said Arthur, "er ..

 The robot obediently looked at them, then looked back

 Arthur choked on his beer, leapt to his feet.

 "Ford," said Zaphod quietly.

 "Everyone?" said Arthur.  everyone Perhaps if outside that the perhaps  we somewhere has  "Well, it means something! know  ..." "Maybe. Who cares?" said Slartibartfast  before  Arthur  got  too excited.old remote is keep of yourself always that only on of sense tired," absurdly just he and what to to that and finding going continued, say so occupied do  are  the chances  hang out is the thing "Perhaps really "but I I'm. Look at me: I design coastlines. I got an award for Norway."

 "Trillian and I came round a while ago," said Ford.  "We  shouted and  yelled  till  somebody came and then carried on shouting and yelling till they got fed up and put us in their planet catalogue to keep us busy till they were ready to deal with us.This  Sens-O-Tape is all."

 The sweat stood out cold on Ford Prefect's brow, and  slid  round the  electrodes strapped to his temples. These were attached to a battery of electronic equipment - imagery intensifiers,  rhythmic modulators,  alliterative  residulators  and simile dumpers - all designed to heighten the experience of the  poem  and  make  sure that not a single nuance of the poet's thought was lost.

 "They've been experimenting on you I'm afraid."

 "Oh well," he said, and stood up. For a moment, nothing happened.

 "And are you  not,"  said  Fook  leaning  anxiously  forward,  "a greater  analyst  than the Googleplex Star Thinker in the Seventh Galaxy of Light and Ingenuity which can calculate the  trajectory of  every  single  dust particle throughout a five-week Dangrabad Beta sand blizzard?"

 Suddenly a stentorian voice boomed across the room.

 The old man looked at him gravely. "I said it wasn't important," he said.

 The Guide even tells you how you can mix one yourself.

 "I don't know," said Ford, "I haven't opened my eyes yet."

 Zaphod Beeblebrox would not be needing  his  set  speech  and  he gently deflected the one being offered him by the spider.

 With a subtle roar the engines  cut back in, the ship smoothly flattened out of its dive and headed back towards the missiles again.

 "I can imagine."

. "But why?" demanded Trillian

 "You'd been happy to let them die?"

 Come on.Zaphod, said  else that," "Not "something."

. The planet rolled on. "We are now traversing the night side ." he said  in  a  hushed voice.



. "Marvin!" warned Trillian

 A thoroughly ridiculous  form  of  transport,  but  a  thoroughly beautiful one.

 He pointed down into the crater



 He waited for the applause to die down, then raised his hands  in greeting.

 Even Ford was surprised.

 Quite suddenly  the  barrage  stopped,  and  the  sudden  silence afterwards  was  punctuated  by a couple of strangled gurgles and thuds

 Again came the voice.

 "Well we are aren't we?"

 "An answer for you?" interrupted Deep Thought majestically. "Yes. have."

 "How soon can we get off it?"

. "No, nothing," said Ford, stuffing the peanuts into his pockets



 "Secondly, we are about to jump into hyperspace for  the  journey to  Barnard's  Star.  On  arrival  we  will  stay  in  dock for a seventy-two hour refit, and no one's to  leave  the  ship  during that time. I repeat, all planet leave is cancelled. I've just had an unhappy love affair, so I don't see why  anybody  else  should have a good time. Message ends." The noise stopped.

 "There," she pointed, "right there."

"

 "And you can shut up as well!" snapped Ford.believe sensation  either conversation  he had having, he just had 

 the The barman believe but he was the couldn't couldn't.

 "What I mean," said Ford, "is does it give you a full  satisfying life? Stomping around, shouting, pushing people out of spaceships ..."

 "What? You never told me."

  They  were  aware  that  this  day  they  would represent  their  entire  race  in  its greatest moment, but they conducted themselves calmly and quietly as they seated themselves deferentially  before the desk, opened their brief cases and took out their leather-bound notebooks.

 Uncomprehending terror settled on the watching people  of  Earth. The  terror  moved  slowly through the gathered crowds as if they were iron fillings on a sheet of board and a  magnet  was  moving beneath  them.desperate  Panic was panic, but nowhere to to sprouted there fleeing flee. Observing this, the Vogons turned on their PA again. It said:

 "Meanwhile  we  thank our  clients for their kind interest and would ask them to leave. be that's geography supplements, once again from select will our best when able    our   made that   would all as   fashionable announcements soon  in colour assure magazines like clients be  "We business to resumed as you. Now." The menace in the voice took on a sharper edge

 Allow three cubes of Arcturan Mega-gin to melt into  the  mixture (it must be properly iced or the benzine is lost).

 Another pause, and then the loud hailer again.

 "Good afternoon boys."

". "Very depressed

 "It is most gratifying," it said, "that your enthusiasm  for  our planet  continues  unabated,  and  so we would like to assure you that the guided missiles currently converging with your ship  are part  of  a  special  service  we  extend  to  all  of  our  most enthusiastic clients, and the fully armed nuclear warheads are of course  merely  a courtesy detail. We look forward to your custom in future lives ... thank you."

 "We'll do it together. "Fine," said Zaphod, relaxing."

.relaxant?"

" Sirius mode

  every  permeated  ship    the   controlled Cybernetics  particle Computer "Muscle of and which  into communication Shipboard   The Corporation switched. "Yeah, so if you'd taken the trouble to think about the problem a bit longer it would have gone away

". "I don't  think  we've got a deal. "Look, I'm sorry, mice old lads," he said

 Zaphod was clearly rather depressed about it. He stalked  off  by himself  and  was  soon lost to sight behind a slight rise in the ground.

 On the surface of Magrathea Arthur wandered about moodily.

 "Ah."

 With little shudders of disgust they all followed Zaphod down the incline  into  the  crater,  trying  very hard not to look at its unfortunate creator.

 Again they thought.the Horsehead in Nebula 

 "We're.dark One cloud ."

 R17 is not a fixed velocity, but it is clearly far too fast.



 "Shhh!" said Zaphod. "There's absolutely nothing  to  be  worried about."

 The word was Loonquawl, and it flashed a  couple  of  times and  the  disappeared again. "The time is nearly upon us," said one, and Arthur was  surprised to  see a word suddenly materialize in thin air just by the man's neck. Before Arthur was able to assimilate this the other man spoke and the word  Phouchg  appeared  by  his neck

 Ford looked back at him, genuinely surprised.

 It seemed somehow unnaturally dark and silent, even  for  a  ship whose  two-man  crew  was  at that moment lying asphyxicated in a smoke-filled chamber several miles beneath the ground. It is  one of  those curious things that is impossible to explain or define, but one can sense when a ship is completely dead.

 "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. It's a sort of  electronic book.  It  tells  you everything you need to know about anything. That's its job."

 "`Oh, that was easy,' says Man, and for  an  encore  goes  on  to prove  that  black  is  white and gets himself killed on the next zebra crossing.

. "Listen old friend, if you want to ." started Ford eventually.

 "You wouldn't need to," said  Ford.as sex    as   much road appeal got  a  "They've  . No, don't move," he added as Arthur began to uncurl himself, "you'd better be prepared for  the  jump into hyperspace. It's unpleasantly like being drunk."

 A government spider sidled up to him and  attempted  to  press  a copy  of his prepared speech into his hands. Pages three to seven of the original version were at the moment  floating  soggily  on the  Damogran sea some five miles out from the bay. Pages one and two had been salvaged by a Damogran Frond Crested Eagle  and  had already  become  incorporated  into  an extraordinary new form of nest which the eagle had invented. It was constructed largely  of papier  m@ch@ and it was virtually impossible for a newly hatched baby eagle to break out of it. The Damogran Frond  Crested  Eagle had  heard of the notion of survival of the species but wanted no truck with it.and in his house of lying out that "But, was garden 

 seconds yellow path of bulldozer later this up advancing was Fifteen front  big. Mr L Prosser was, as they say, only human. words other carbon-based form from he In ape an life a. More specifically he was forty, fat and shabby and worked for  the  local  council. Genghis for though Curiously didn't discernible little of he vestiges  male-line   the so and   about that ancestry his  of and pronounced he  a enough, Khan, and    a fur  tum  predilection   in left were  mighty descendant   know no   his Prosser hats was intervening  L a racial genes  Mr only Mongoloid  the mixing it, also though.

 A sudden silence hit the Earth. If anything it was worse than the noise. For a while nothing happened.

 It was  the  Blagulon  Kappa  policecraft,  a  bulbous  sharklike affair, slate green in colour and smothered with black stencilled letters of  varying  degrees  of  size  and  unfriendliness.was  who and from, where to cared the what power anyone where the should informed assigned to, ship letters as of to connected  section  them was feeds the .

". "Ah, well the lights had probably gone

". "Because I thought I must be going mad

 "For instance, the first phase is characterized by  the  question How can we eat? the second by the question Why do we eat? and the third by the question Where shall we have lunch?"

. "Yellow," he thought. He  looked at  himself  in  the  wardrobe  mirror. The word yellow wandered through  his  mind in search of something to connect with



 Every year they import twenty-seven thousand scintillating  jewelled  scuttling crabs from their native planet and while away a happy drunken night smashing them to  bits  with iron mallets. Within a  few  short  Vog  years  every  last  Vogon  had migrated  to  the  Megabrantis  cluster, the political hub of the Galaxy and now formed the  immensely  powerful  backbone  of  the Galactic  Civil Service. They have attempted to acquire learning, they have attempted to acquire style and  social  grace,  but  in most  respects  the  modern  Vogon  is  little different from his primitive forebears.

 It consisted in large part of the engineers and  researchers  who had built the Heart of Gold - mostly humanoid, but here and there were a few reptiloid atomineers, two or  three  green  slyph-like maximegalacticans,  an  octopoid  physucturalist  or  two  and  a Hooloovoo (a Hooloovoo is a super-intelligent shade of the  color blue).  All except the Hooloovoo were resplendent in their multi- colored ceremonial lab coats; the Hooloovoo had been  temporarily refracted into a free standing prism for the occasion.

 "Tell us!"

 "I think the ship's brand new," said Ford.

"

 "Let me see what it says in this edition then, I've  got  to  see it."



 With a brief nod to the rest of the company he turned and  walked sadly out of the room.

 Ford carried on. "And Arthur," he said, "this is  my  semi-cousin Zaphod Beeb ..."

 The wall defied the imagination - seduced it and defeated it. The wall  was so paralysingly vast and sheer that its top, bottom and sides passed away beyond the reach of sight. The  mere  shock  of vertigo could kill a man.

 "So?"

. Zaphod paused



 "Nice day for it."

 The next thing that happened  was  a  mid-mangling  explosion  of noise and light.

. "Tricky," he said finally

 The principle of generating small amounts of finite improbability by  simply  hooking  the  logic circuits of a Bambleweeny 57 Sub- Meson Brain to an atomic vector plotter  suspended  in  a  strong Brownian  Motion  producer  (say  a  nice hot cup of tea) were of course well understood - and such generators were often  used  to break  the  ice  at  parties  by  making all the molecules in the hostess's undergarments leap simultaneously one foot to the left, in accordance with the Theory of Indeterminacy.

.  "But  who  are  the Dentrassi?" he said.seventy-five against one  the Arthur's face

 falling "Two to thousand   A   to."

 Not only  were they ugly themselves, but the medical equipment they carried with them was also far from pretty.  On  the other  side  of  it  was a small pack of rather ugly men who they could only assume were the heavy mob of Magrathea

 "Well. Now you put it like that I suppose ..."

 "Hey," he said, what do you do that for?"

. Another thing they couldn't stand was the perpetual failure  they encountered in trying to construct a machine which could generate the infinite improbability  field  needed  to  flip  a  spaceship across  the mind-paralysing distances between the furthest stars, and in the end they grumpily announced that such  a  machine  was virtually impossible

 Ford stared at him, aghast. Trillian had turned white.

 "Aha, now that does sound promising!" He rolled the  phrase  around  a little. anything significant   very to down you   actually at   Sounds "that's "Yes,"    tying without he all.  Frankie  baby, we are made!".  How many roads must a man walk down? Forty-two. Excellent, excellent, that'll fox 'em. "Ah," said Benji



 Arthur Dent moved, and groaned again, muttering incoherently.

 Ford stood up. "We're safe," he said.

 Eddie, shocked, paused and considered this.

 "That's what they told us in the army," said  the  man,  and  his eyes began the long trek back down to his whisky.

". "No

 "Yes sir," said the old man coldly, "thank you very  much. lifestyle "hope   sprang comes Earthman," up said he Well,  Ford.

". "Ford," he said, "you're turning into a penguin

". "Oh yes

 "How long?" Arthur thought. "Er, about five years, maybe six," he said. "Most of it seemed to make some sense at the time."

 "We're in a small galley  cabin,"  said  Ford,  "in  one  of  the spaceships of the Vogon Constructor Fleet."



 "But relative to what we were doing when the ship picked them  up ..."

"

 "Hi there!" it said brightly and simultaneously spewed out a tiny ribbon  of ticker tape just for the record

 He threw himself backwards into a huge leathery  bat-shaped  seat and watched them.. He did the smile again

. "Yes," said Arthur,  glaring  at  him  and  trying  not  to  feel foolish.."

 The prisoners sat in Poetry Appreciation  Chairs  --strapped  in. Vogons  suffered  no  illusions as to the regard their works were generally held in. Their early attempts at composition  had  been part  of  bludgeoning  insistence  that  they  be  accepted  as a properly evolved and cultured race, but now the only  thing  that kept them going was sheer bloodymindedness.

 "I think it's just a dead planet," he said.





 Arthur looked at Ford and was astonished to see him laughing.



 "It's alright, I've got them back now," said Arthur.

 "We could tell," shouted Ford.

 In the centre lay the exploded carcass of a  lonely  sperm  whale that  hadn't  lived  long enough to be disappointed with its lot. The silence was only disturbed by the slight  involuntary  spasms of Trillian's throat.

 "Since when," continued his murine colleague,  "we  have  had  an offer  of  a quite enormously fat contract to do the 5D chat show and lecture circuit back in  our  own  dimensional  neck  of  the woods, and we're very much inclined to take it."



 Ford beckoned to Prosser who sadly, awkwardly, sat  down  in  the mud.  He  felt  that his whole life was some kind of dream and he sometimes wondered whose it was and whether  they  were  enjoying it. The mud folded itself round his bottom and his arms and oozed into his shoes.

".

 "You recognize those Galactic coordinates?" said Zaphod.

 This is a complete record of its  thoughts  from  the  moment  it began its life till the moment it ended it.

 "And stop talking," said Zaphod,  "it's  hard  enough  trying  to sleep  anyway.  What's  the matter with the ground? It's all cold and hard."

 "But  alright,"  went  on   the   rumblings,   "so   what's   the alternative?"



. They waited

 "Recognize that?" whispered Zaphod.



 Zaphod smiled, picturing himself.

 Slartibartfast was standing in front of Arthur  holding  the  two wires.

 "I'm very insecure. We know that." "Can we drop your ego for a moment? This is important."

. Outside the door were the sounds of marching feet

 "We're cornered.". "There are two of them," said Trillian

 "Hey, yeah?" Ford gave up the attempt to sleep. In the corner of his cabin was a  small  computer  screen and keyboard. He sat at it for a while and tried to compose a new entry for the Guide on the subject  of Vogons but couldn't think of anything vitriolic enough so he gave that up too, wrapped a robe round himself and went for a walk  to the bridge.

"

 "Cool it will you Arthur!" demanded Ford.

 "I beg your pardon?" asked Arthur, rather politely he thought.

 Have you  any  idea  how  much damage that bulldozer would suffer if I just let it roll straight over you?"

. A shadow moved across him again

 "No, I don't think so," said Zaphod. "I think  they  just  didn't like it very much."



". It's been demolished

. Sadly, however, before she could get to a phone  to  tell  anyone- about  it,  a  terribly stupid catastrophe occurred, and the idea was lost forever

 "Yeah, why not?" They let fly another electric barrage.

 "Look," he said, pointing into the crater.

 Evenings like this usually ended badly. Ford would get out of his skull  on whisky, huddle into a corner with some girl and explain to her in slurred phrases that honestly the colour of the  flying saucers didn't matter that much really.

 Trillian was tapping her fingers on a screenful of figures.



 Very very fast.

 "I said forget it.lie in of You "

  indefinitely   front can't bulldozer the . "Come off it, Mr Dent,", he said, "you can't win  you  know." He tried to make his eyes blaze fiercely but they just wouldn't do it

 "Oh yes," said Arthur with  a  sigh,  "great  wide  rolling  blue oceans ..."

. Inside it floated a wide semi-circular sofa  upholstered  in  glorious  red leather:  the more the globe bobbed and rolled, the more the sofa stayed perfectly still, steady as an upholstered rock. Again, all done for effect as much as anything

 Trillian interrupted.

 Still he knew what he had to do.  As  the  Vogon  craft  screamed through  the  air  high above him he opened his satchel. He threw away a copy of Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor  Dreamcoat,  he threw away a copy of Godspell: He wouldn't need them where he was going. Everything was ready, everything was prepared.

 "There you are," gasped Ford, scrabbling for a fingerhold on  the pavement  as  it raced through the Third Reach of the Unknown, "I told you I'd think of something

 Ford and Arthur stared about them.

 He looked about the cabin but  could  see  very  little;  strange monstrous  shadows  loomed  and  leaped  with the tiny flickering flame, but all was quiet. He breathed a silent thank you  to  the Dentrassis.  they  tribe catering recently as the to much The had very strict fleets,   but   an wild of their that long Vogons staff haul on keep are  the unruly   to  gourmands,   whom themselves    a bunch Dentrassis themselves  taken  employing pleasant understanding.

 clinked their Zaphod and together Ford glasses.

 "It's the Vogon captain making an announcement on the T'annoy."

 "And there it was," said Zaphod, "clear as day. anything other them both each related  section to around in brains  middle only that and A whole else not. Some bastard had cauterized all the  synapses  and  electronically traumatised those two lumps of cerebellum."

 They sank into silence for a few seconds.

 Only six people in the entire Galaxy understood the principle  on which  the  Galaxy  was  governed, and they knew that once Zaphod Beeblebrox had announced his intention to run as President it was more  or  less  a  fait  accompli:  he  was  the ideal Presidency fodder*



  The crowd  laughed  appreciatively,  the  newsmen  gleefully  punched buttons on their Sub-Etha News-Matics and the President grinned.. A marvellous Presidential quote, absolutely  true  to  form

 "Simple. I got very bored and depressed, so I  went  and  plugged myself in to its external computer feed. I talked to the computer at great length and explained my view of  the  Universe  to  it," said Marvin.

 "In this replacement Earth we're building they've given me Africa to  do and of course I'm doing it with all fjords again because I happen to like them, and I'm old fashioned enough to  think  that they  give a lovely baroque feel to a continent. And they tell me it's not equatorial enough. Equatorial!" He gave a hollow  laugh. "What  does it matter? Science has achieved some wonderful things of course, but I'd far rather be happy than right any day."





 "Look," said Ford, "you reckon this is Magrathea ..."

  "That  will  be all.". "Thank you Slartibartfast," said  Benji  firmly

. Zaphod Beeblebrox was amazingly good at his job

 "Yeah could you just sort of keep this robot with you  and  guard this end of the passageway. OK?"

 Ford gave up. He just said:. It really wasn't worth  bothering  at  the  moment, what with the world being about to end

 "I can't either," said Arthur, who felt it was time he  began  to assert himself.

 "We have to have something that sounds good," said Benji.

 "You mean the way the sea stays steady  and  the  buildings  keep washing up and down?" said Ford. "Yes I thought that was odd too. In fact," he continued as with a huge bang Southend split  itself into  six equal segments which danced and span giddily round each other in lewd  and  licentious  formation,  "there  is  something altogether very strange going on."

 "I thought," he said, "that if the world was going to end we were meant to lie down or put a paper bag over our head or something

 He turned it over in his hands with a shrug and tossed  it  aside carelessly,  but  not  so  carelessly  that  it  didn't  land  on something soft.would not Arthur be deterred 

..".. England ..  On  Earth 



 Arthur looked up and squinting into the sun was startled  to  see Ford Prefect standing above him.said shadow

 shocking was cock-up quite  "Hello Arthur," a It. Five minutes later and it wouldn't have mattered  so  much.". "Yes

 "What I was about to say was that ...ecstatic crowd from the "

 Hurrahs.

 Toothpaste on the brush - so. Scrub.yeah data, to "We've said 

 he urgently

 got "Improbability talk,"."

 "But unfortunately," continued Ford, "it rather involved being on the  other  side  of this airtight hatchway." He kicked the hatch they'd just been through.

 "How did you know I was an Earthman?" demanded Arthur.

 The man next to ford grinned and  nodded  happily.  Ford  ignored him. He said, "Time is an illusion. Lunchtime doubly so."

 "I'm game," he said, "we'll see who rusts first

 The man chuckled slightly.

 "Because they left  their  initials  burnt  into  the  cauterized synapses. They left them there for me to see."

 The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy sells  rather  better  than the Encyclopedia Galactica.

 "No, not really," he said. He frowned.

 "Any one."

 Arthur, a regular Guardian reader, was deeply shocked at this.

". "Like a military academy," said  Arthur,  "bits  of  me  keep  on passing out

 In order that some sense of mystery should still be preserved, no revelation  will yet be made concerning whose upper arm sustained the bruise. This fact may safely be made the subject of  suspense since it is of no significance whatsoever.

  It  was  his  idea  that  I should steal it.". "He told me about the Heart of Gold

. "Know him!" exclaimed Ford, "he's ." he paused, and decided  to do the introductions the other way round

 "Oh, it says Genuine People Personalities."

. It had a note from him pinned to part of  its  sparse  instrument panel.  The note had an arrow drawn on it, pointing at one of the controls

 The other two nodded in agreement

 "What the photon is it?"

 A slight hiss built into a deafening roar of rushing air  as  the outer  hatchway opened on to an empty blackness studded with tiny impossibly bright points of light. Ford and  Arthur  popped  into outer space like corks from a toy gun.

..?".. "Yes .

 Shaving mirror - pointing at the ceiling. He adjusted it.  For  a moment  it  reflected  a  second  bulldozer  through the bathroom window. Properly adjusted, it reflected Arthur  Dent's  bristles.to dried, stomped to off, pleasant mouth find his and in  something put off to shaved He kitchen them washed,.

 There are of course many problems connected with life,  of  which some  of  the  most  popular are Why are people born? Why do they die? Why do they want to spend so much of  the  intervening  time wearing digital watches?

 "A simple one!" wailed Arthur.

 "Drink up.The sadly at looked "

 man seemed it Arthur,.

 He hurried over to the other prone figure,  and  discovered  that exactly the same impossible thing had happened to him, presumably simultaneously.

 "Oh, er, well the hatchway in front of us will open automatically in  a  few moments and we will shoot out into deep space I expect and asphyxicate. If you take a lungful of air with  you  you  can last  for up to thirty seconds of course ..." said Ford. He stuck his hands behind his back, raised his eyebrows and started to hum an  old  Betelgeusian  battle  hymn. To Arthur's eyes he suddenly looked very alien.

 "That's it," said Zaphod with the sort of  grin  that  would  get most people locked away in a room with soft walls.  brain  part thought the Ford, penultimate an   he     organic lucidly 

  said the of "So configuration      programme,"  rather  your of was.

 "Hi there! This is Eddie your shipboard computer, and I'm feeling just  great  guys,  and  I know I'm just going to get a bundle of kicks out of any programme you care to run through me."

. Ford was rasping for breath. He rolled his dusty tongue round his parched mouth and moaned

 "Just before Yooden died he came to see me



 "Not until whoever  said  that  owns  up,"  urged  the  computer, stamping a few synapses closed. "Oh God," muttered Ford, slumped against a bulkhead  and  started to  count  to  ten.  He  was  desperately  worried  that  one day sentinent life forms  would  forget  how  to  do  this..  Only  by counting   could   humans   demonstrate   their  independence  of computers

 A man sitting next to Ford at the bar  looked  at  the  two  men, looked  at the six pints, did a swift burst of mental arithmetic, arrived at an answer he liked and grinned a stupid  hopeful  grin at them.a nobody full at Ford worry said mind of For 

 gazed as a with anything suddenly.

 "That is really amazing," he said. "That really is truly amazing. That is so amazingly amazing I think I'd like to steal it."

 It doesn't apply to us, get it?" "What," said Trillian quietly, "about the missiles?". It's millions of years old. "Look," said Zaphod, "will you get it  into  your  heads?  That's just  a  recorded message



. Zaphod grinned and gave the boat an extra kick of speed

 "Er, well yes, a little peckish I suppose," said Arthur.

 "In my aircar," said the old man motioning Arthur to get into the craft which had settled silently next to them. "We are going deep into the bowels of the planet where even now our  race  is  being revived from its five-million-year slumber."

 "What's up?"

 "You got it," said the computer.

 "Magrathea is a gateway back to our own dimension," put in Benji.



 He was tallish, elderly and dressed in a single long grey robe.  But  he didn't turn yet, not even to react to Arthur's yelp of surprise. distinguished, When  unkind,   face  and was his  with you happily turned   not the  of he careworn bank but sort face. He was standing with his back to Arthur watching  the  very  last glimmers  of light sink into blackness behind the horizon

 "Would it give you a lot of pleasure?" said Zaphod, blearily.



 Arthur Dent sat and quivered. He had no idea what he was in  for, but  he  knew  that he hadn't liked anything that had happened so far and didn't think things were likely to change





 "No! Shut up!" said Ford.think trouble we're I in ."

 Arthur goggled at him.

 There did, however, remain the question of  both  the  mysterious 60,000  Altairan  dollars  paid yearly into his Brantisvogan bank account, and of  course  Zaphod  Beeblebrox's  highly  profitable second-hand biro business.the "Energize 

 demolition."

 "Yes you do, everybody does.  It's  part  of  the  shape  of  the Universe.  I only have to talk to somebody and they begin to hate me. Even robots hate me. If you just ignore me I expect  I  shall probably go away."

.  Finally  they  composed  themselves, and Benji moved forward to address Arthur. The  two  mice  scuttled  impatiently  around  in   their   glass transports

". "That .

 a "With torch."

 "Ah no," he said, "I see the source of the misunderstanding  now. No,  look  you  see,  what  happened  was  that  we  used  to  do experiments  on  them.  They  were  often  used  in   behavioural research, Pavlov and all that sort of stuff.hat so nature of the sorts  happened process mazes would So  of was whole around be bells, to examined  mice could and tests, run   ring learning be what the. From our observations  of their  behaviour  we were able to learn all sorts of things about our own ..."

 He got no further before the ship's intercom buzzed into life.

 "Tricky," he said.

". "It won't work," droned Marvin, "I have  an  exceptionally  large mind

 It is of course well known that careless talk  costs  lives,  but the full scale of the problem is not always appreciated.

 So saying, they turned on their heels and walked out of the  door and into a lifestyle beyond their wildest dreams.

 "Alright," said Benji. "What do you get if you  multiply  six  by seven?"

 "No, can you?"

 "No, well you're completely wrong," he said, "I just write poetry to  throw  my  mean callous heartless exterior into sharp relief. I'm going to throw you off  the  ship  anyway.  Guard!  Take  the prisoners to number three airlock and throw them out!"

 "Zaphod Beeblebrox."

 Then, after a second or so, nothing  continued  to  happen.Arthur notice difference," the 



 "I'd.

 "Two to the power of fifty thousand to one against and  falling," said the voice.

 The long steel-lined corridor echoed to the feeble  struggles  of the two humanoids clamped firmly under rubbery Vogon armpits.fish not isn't evolved "`But,' could `The by it? is dead a Man, It  

 Babel have giveaway, chance . It proves you exist, and so therefore, by your own arguments, you don't. QED.'





 "Stop, you vandals! You home wreckers!" bawled Arthur. "You  half crazed Visigoths, stop will you!"

.."

 "Who - the man with the five heads and the elderberry  bush  full of kippers?" "Yes.times under It many and compiled been   different  "



 recompiled years editorships many   has     and over. numbers  of       from researchers  and  countless  travellers  It contains . The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the  Galaxy  is  a  wholly  remarkable book.



 A computer chatted to itself in alarm as it  noticed  an  airlock open and close itself for no apparent reason.

 "Well, what were they, for God's sake?"

 "Shhh," said Loonquawl with  a  slight  gesture,  "I  think  Deep Thought is preparing to speak!"

 "Oh," said Arthur, "sounds ghastly."

 "What's this fish doing in my ear?"

 "Dunno," said Zaphod, "I think I  preferred  it  when  they  were shooting."

 "It's probably just your house being knocked  down,"  said  Ford, drowning his last pint.

 Arthur glanced at them, wondering what all this  was  leading  up to.

 That's pretty improbable you know.. You know, like two to one, three to  one,  five  to four against.the to  It one thousand one two power against of said.were the "What "

 "it Marvin, first all is. Look at this door," he said, stepping through it.". Just don't  even  talk about it. Absolutely ghastly.  It  is  their pleasure  to  open for you, and their satisfaction to close again with the knowledge of a job well done. "All the doors in this spaceship have a cheerful and  sunny  disposition

 Suddenly he realized what it was. Arthur blinked at the screens and felt he was  missing  something important



 "We'll go on strike!" yelled Vroomfondel.

 "Dent. Arthur Dent," said Arthur.

 A towel, it says, is about the most  massively  useful  thing  an interstellar  hitch hiker can have. Partly it has great practical value - you can wrap it around you for warmth as you bound across the cold moons of Jaglan Beta; you can lie on it on the brilliant marble-sanded beaches of Santraginus V, inhaling  the  heady  sea vapours;  you can sleep under it beneath the stars which shine so redly on the desert world of Kakrafoon; use it  to  sail  a  mini raft  down  the slow heavy river Moth; wet it for use in hand-to- hand-combat; wrap it round your head to ward off noxious fumes or to  avoid  the  gaze of the Ravenous Bugblatter Beast of Traal (a mindboggingly stupid animal, it assumes that if you can't see it, it  can't  see  you - daft as a bush, but very ravenous); you can wave your towel in emergencies  as  a  distress  signal,  and  of course  dry  yourself  off  with it if it still seems to be clean enough.still out happened

 And the stepped into open he 

 nothing.

 Trillian span her seat round to face him and shrugged.

.the  waving and ignored a vicious end appeared armoured suited figure of Kill-O-Zap heavily She the  At gun

 gangway this.



 Zaphod stared at him bitterly.

 A tall Magrathean man was standing in front of them.

 "I stole it to look for a lot of things.what?"

 excited "Like Ford was wildly.

 President:  full  title  President  of  the  Imperial  Galactic Government.

 Every tin can, every dust bin, every  window,  every  car,  every wine  glass,  every  sheet  of rusty metal became activated as an acoustically perfect sounding board

 "Apart from that?"

" "Very good. "Inside a dark nebula is the only place in the Galaxy you'd see a dark screen."

 Stress and nervous tension are now serious social problems in all parts  of  the  Galaxy,  and  it  is in order that this situation should not in any way be exacerbated  that  the  following  facts will now be revealed in advance.

 "What happened to you?" demanded Arthur.

 "No."

 They looked at each other in puzzlement.to   computer in day the whose my  calculate, will Deep  and nothing merest  but "and teeming time," Thought, see  streams  I  of delta that design pronounced there  can not "You my  parameters  eventually navigate must one 

 know which infinite yet operational I to  probability come    worthy it a be circuitry ."

 "I said we've met."



 "Well I was just saying," said Arthur lounging by  a  small  fish pool,  "there's this Improbability Drive switch over here ..." he waved at where it had been. There was a potted plant there now. "But where are we?" said Ford  who  was  sitting  on  the  spiral staircase,  a  nicely  chilled Pan Galactic Gargle Blaster in his hand.

 "Zaphod?" exclaimed Ford.

 Ford had thoughtfully left him his  copy  of  The  Hitch  Hiker's Guide  to the Galaxy to while away the time with. He pushed a few buttons at random.back and Gold to  suicide," Heart  of committed the off stalked Marvin said.

. "The Universe ..

 (After a while the style settles down a bit and it begins to tell you  things  you  really  need  to  know,  like the fact that the fabulously beautiful planet Bethselamin is now so  worried  about the  cumulative  erosion  by ten billion visiting tourists a year that any net imbalance between the amount you eat and the  amount you  excrete whilst on the planet is surgically removed from your bodyweight when you leave: so every time you go to  the  lavatory it is vitally important to get a receipt.)

"

 "What, down there?" said Trillian with severe distaste.

 At the top of the crater's lip they met Zaphod.

 The deadly missile attack shortly to be launched  by  an  ancient automatic  defence  system  will result merely in the breakage of three coffee cups and a  micecage,  the  bruising  of  somebody's upper  arm, and the untimely creation and sudden demise of a bowl of petunias and an innocent sperm whale.

 The peculiar man waved a lazy wave at Ford and with an  appalling affectation of nonchalance said, "Ford, hi, how are you? Glad you could drop in

 Let go of me you brute!"

 The Guide also tells you on which planets the best  Pan  Galactic Gargle Blasters are mixed, how much you can expect to pay for one and what voluntary organizations exist to help  you  rehabilitate afterwards.

. "See what I mean?" said Zaphod and howled with  pain  because  of something that Trillian did at that moment. "What?" cried Arthur, backing away still further

 "Will you open the exit  hatch  please,  computer?"  said  Zaphod trying not to get angry.

 "I figure this," said Zaphod. my  "Whatever  happened did mind, to I  it .way that such in it it  a did  I detected wouldn't government by screening be the. And I wasn't to know  anything about it myself.longer said than Earth rather Ford got the on I "Unfortunately right?"

   crazy,  intended," for I Pretty.  "I  came  for  a  week and got stuck for fifteen years

. "What?" shouted Ford. A huge young Vogon guard stepped forward and yanked them  out  of their straps with his huge blubbery arms

. "I suppose there's no point  in  trying  to  bury  it?"  murmured Arthur, and then wished he hadn't

 No follow-up, you see. "You see," he said, "if they're just sitting there in the  studio looking  very  relaxed  and,  you know, just mentioning that they happen to know the Answer to Life, the Universe  and  Everything, and  then  eventually  have to admit that in fact it's Forty-two, then the show's probably quite short."

 "Why doesn't anyone turn on this Improbability Drive  thing?"  he said. "We could probably reach that."

  The two men fidgeted. "Alright," said the computer and settled into silence again.

 "These things will become clear to you," said the old man gently, "at  least,"  he  added  with slight doubt in his voice, "clearer than they are at the moment."

 "And I was meant to recognize that from a blank screen?"

 "I want you to know that whatever your problem, I am here to help you solve it."

 Ford frowned.

 Zaphod and Trillian pored over the figures that the Improbability flight path scanner flashed silently up in front of them.

 "The answer to what?". "The answer?" said Deep Thought

 He turned hopelessly on his heel and lugged himself  out  of  the cabin. him

 Zaphod behind   a sleep hum  and door With couldn't click closed the satisfied a. He also wished he knew what it was that he wouldn't  let  himself  think  about.long as there of  feeling as he'd he could   all not  nagging a from  suffered  remember vague.been it, arrival Most Arthur was had the not thought this but it to  worry re-awakened by of inexplicable Dent sudden aside and the of able Ford time put about. Somehow it seemed to conform to a pattern that he couldn't see.



 "Into the interior of the planet!  An  underground  passage.  The force  of the whale's impact cracked it open, and that's where we have to go. Where no man has trod these five million years,  into the very depths of time itself ..."

 "Oh just somebody. Well alright, I wasn't doing  very  well  with her. I'd been trying all evening. Hell, she was something though. Beautiful, charming, devastatingly intelligent, at last  I'd  got her  to  myself  for  a bit and was plying her with a bit of talk when this friend of yours barges up and says Hey  doll,  is  this guy  boring  you?  Why  don't  you talk to me instead? I'm from a different planet." I never saw her again.isn't me "That's way "

 to it?"

 behave pretty unpleasant "Nor.point? what's   So the Stop ."  Zaphod  curled himself up.

 Out of  the corner of his mouth: "Well done, Arthur, that was very good.". "Into whatever it was the poem was about!" he yelled

 "You just come along with me and have a good time. The Galaxy's a fun place. You'll need to have this fish in your ear."

 "Oh ... and er ... interesting rhythmic devices  too,"  continued Arthur,  "which  seemed to counterpoint the ... er ... er ..." He floundered.

 "What were those thuds?"

. At the top of the cliff the globe wavered for a moment, tipped on to  a railed ramp, rolled down it to a small concave platform and riddled to a halt

. The Vogon Constructor fleet coasted away  into  the  inky  starry void

 "Good lad. OK, here we go."

 "The Babel fish," said The Hitch  Hiker's  Guide  to  the  Galaxy quietly,  "is  small,  yellow  and  leech-like,  and probably the oddest thing in the Universe.the which   mind by  carrier the its formed supplied the telepathic   into frequencies picked  then brain  speech combining   them up from centres signals matrix of excretes conscious  a of thought the    has with.  The  practical upshot  of all this is that if you stick a Babel fish in your ear you can instantly understand anything said to you in any form  of language.. It feeds on  brainwave  energy  not from  its  carrier  but  from  those  around  it

. Unfortunately, in the Vl'hurg tongue this was the  most  dreadful insult  imaginable,  and  there  was  nothing  for it but to wage terrible war for centuries

 Ford waddled around his pond in a furious circle.

.  It was  the  first phrase he'd learnt when he joined the Vogon Guard Corps

 Ford glanced round at him.

 Its voice was low and hopeless.

 "Well," said Ford, brightly but slowly, "stop doing it of course! Tell  them,"  he went on, "you're not going to do it anymore." He felt he had to add something to that,  but  for  the  moment  the guard seemed to have his mind occupied pondering that much.

 "Zaphod," she said patiently, "they were floating unprotected  in open space ...would Arthur died you up," to "Oh  shut you?"

 have want Dent. "Shut up and go  away,  and  take your  bloody  bypass  with you. You haven't got a leg to stand on and you know it."

 "Well," said Ford, "the Thumb's an electronic sub-etha signalling device,  the roundabout's at Barnard's Star six light years away, but otherwise, that's more or less right

 "Thank you very much," said Mr Prosser who no longer knew how  to play  this  at  all,  "thank you very much, yes, that's very kind ..." He frowned, then smiled, then tried  to  do  both  at  once, failed,  grasped hold of his fur hat and rolled it fitfully round the top of his head. He could only assume that he had just won.

 "It doesn't have an entry!" he burst out

 "If I asked you where the hell  we  were,"  said  Arthur  weakly, "would I regret it?"

 "No.to the feet stood himself direction  and He "

 his up jacked resolutely facing.

 Arthur stood up, feeling as if he was in a dream.

 "What's that?" he.

 "No," insisted Arthur, "don't you understand, this is  the  first time  I've  actually stood on the surface of another planet ... a whole alien world ...! Pity it's such a dump though."

 "What do you mean?"

.." said Deep Thought. "Of Life, the Universe and Everything .

 The  two  missiles  loomed  massively  on  the  screens  as  they thundered towards the ship.

 A dreadful silence  fell  across  the  conference  table  as  the commander  of  the  Vl'hurgs,  resplendent  in his black jewelled battle shorts, gazed levelly at the G'Gugvuntt  leader  squatting opposite  him in a cloud of green sweet-smelling steam, and, with a million sleek and horribly beweaponed star cruisers  poised  to unleash  electric death at his single word of command, challenged the vile creature to take back what it had said about his mother.

. They performed a scampering dance in their excitement

 "Oh come off it," said  Arthur,  "the  chances  against  it  were astronomical."

. Zaphod Beeblebrox paced nervously up and down the cabin, brushing his  hands  over  pieces  of gleaming equipment and giggling with excitement

 Meanwhile, the natural forces on the planet  Vogsphere  had  been working  overtime  to  make  up  for  their earlier blunder. They brought forth scintillating jewelled scuttling crabs,  which  the Vogons  ate,  smashing  their  shells  with  iron  mallets;  tall aspiring trees with breathtaking slenderness and colour which the Vogons  cut  down and burned the crab meat with; elegant gazelle- like creatures with silken coats and dewy eyes which  the  Vogons would  catch  and  sit  on. They were no use as transport because their backs would snap instantly, but  the  Vogons  sat  on  them anyway.

 here how about this?" Desperately he grabbed for the only bit of  culture  he  knew  offhand  -  he hummed the first bar of Beethoven's Fifth. "But listen," he shouted to the guard, "there's a whole world you don't  know  anything about ...

 "The Milliard Gargantubrain?" said Deep Thought with  unconcealed contempt. "A mere abacus - mention it not."

 Many solutions were suggested for this problem, but most of these were  largely  concerned with the movements of small green pieces of paper, which is odd because on the whole it wasn't  the  small green pieces of paper that were unhappy.. This planet has - or rather had - a problem, which was this: most of  the  people  on  it were unhappy for pretty much of the time

 "We've met," said Arthur sharply.

. "Marvin flashed him an electronic look

 Allow four litres of Fallian marsh gas to bubble through  it,  in memory of all those happy Hikers who have died of pleasure in the Marshes of Fallia.

 "Marvin!" he exclaimed. "What are you doing?" "Don't feel you have to take any notice of me,  please,"  came  a muffled drone.

  "Here's  an  interesting  little notion. "OK," the  computer  continued. by detergent you are Did governed if  computer it people's  cheery numbers?"

 was as The most telephone lives and brash  selling .

 It met itself again thirteen light seconds away. In other words the wall  formed  the  inside  of  a  hollow sphere, a sphere over three million miles across and flooded with unimaginable light. It would take the finest  laser measuring  equipment  to detect that as it climbed, apparently to infinity, as it dropped dizzily away, as it planed out to  either side,  it also curved.. The wall appeared perfectly flat

 "Ford," said Arthur, "would you please tell me what the  hell  is going on?"

 "Why's that?" said Arthur

 "A teaser? Teasers are usually rich kids with nothing to do. around read put looking cruise down them

 which interstellar contact the buzz Arthur for made book and They haven't this, planets yet.

"  At  which  point   a   strange   and inexplicable sound thrilled suddenly through the bridge - a noise as of a distant fanfare; a hollow, reedy, insubstantial sound.  Even  the  ghosts will have settled down and raised  families  by  now. "Magrathea's been dead for five million years," said Zaphod,  "of course  it's  safe."... The voice said "Greetings to you 

 "He wants to knock your house down?"

 Zaphod leaned forward to Arthur.

 He looked gravely at Arthur and said, "I'm a great fan of science you know

 And the rest, after a sudden wet thud, was silence.

 Zaphod Beeblebrox,  adventurer,  ex-hippy,  good  timer,  (crook? quite  possibly),  manic self-publicist, terribly bad at personal relationships, often thought to be completely out to lunch.



 Arthur got up and walked to the top  of  the  crater.  He  walked around  the  crater.  He  watched two suns set magnificently over Magrathea.about this planets?"

 thought No Arthur "No 

.

. The captain watched with detached amusement and then turned away

 "Computer,"  said  Zaphod,  "tell  us  again  what  our   present trajectory is." "A real pleasure feller," it burbled, "we are currently in  orbit at an altitude of three hundred miles around the legendary planet of Magrathea."

 He shifted his weight from foot  to  foot,  but  it  was  equally uncomfortable  on  each.  Obviously somebody had been appallingly incompetent and he hoped to God it wasn't him.

". I think the problem, to be quite honest with you, is that you've never  actually  known  what  the question is.the for the show computer, you've years'  said half "I "Is  work?" "and answer got definitely  is     it a  that to that  checked.in small  sat few respectful and after forward moments  For "Forty-two!" leaned a then, a Lunkwill they panel Fook,   exchanging  silence, black touched with quiet.

 "Excuse me?" said Arthur. "Are you trying to tell me that we just stuck  out  our  thumbs and some green bug-eyed monster stuck his head out and said, Hi fellas, hop right in. I can take you as far as the Basingstoke roundabout?"

 They had now  reached  the  airlock  -  a  large  circular  steel hatchway  of  massive strength and weight let into the inner skin of the craft. The guard operated a control and the hatchway swung smoothly open.

 Not much point now  is there?"

 With an amazingly  balletic  movement  Zaphod  was  standing  and scanning  the  horizon,  because that was how far the gold ground stretched in every direction,  perfectly  smooth  and  solid.  It gleamed  like  ...  it's  impossible  to say what it gleamed like because nothing in the Universe gleams in quite the same way that a planet of solid gold does. "Who put all that there?" yelped Zaphod, goggle-eyed.



.a and sympathetic continued



  old The frown "Yes," firmly paused, man said with Trillian.

 For light to reach the other side of the Galaxy, for it to  reach Damogran for instance, takes rather longer: five hundred thousand years.

 Benji considered this for a moment.

 "Alright," said Ford.small so-so but a Arthur the after of from I a all, said vicinity if in not somewhere  that  would sort in I'm from Guildford you shrugged "How  planet  Betelgeuse?".





 The Vogon guard dragged them on.

 Somewhere in a small dark cabin buried deep in the intestines  of Prostetnic   Vogon   Jeltz's   flagship,  a  small  match  flared nervously. His name was Ford Prefect*. not  owner Vogon, match  it?" asked but  Arthur was  and right "What he The was is   of about to them be a knew the.

 "That's high. They're two lucky lucky guys." "Yes."

 By  this  time  somebody  somewhere  must  have  manned  a  radio transmitter,  located a wavelength and broadcasted a message back to the Vogon ships, to plead on behalf of the planet. Nobody ever heard  what  they said, they only heard the reply. The PA slammed back into life again. The voice was annoyed. It said:

. Mighty starships plied their way  between  exotic  suns,  seeking adventure  and  reward  amongst  the furthest reaches of Galactic space.from those   were In high, were The  from  faces women, turned furry crowd stakes towards real were were  Centauri

 their real small Centauri the  furry expectantly   were   back   small    men, real women Alpha  him  Alpha  brave,   spirits and men creatures creatures.  He winked  at  Trillian who raised her eyebrows and widened her eyes at him. She knew what he was about  to  say  and  thought  him  a terrible showoff.look a have Ford 

 said this," "Here, at. He sat down on one of the mattresses  and rummaged about in his satchel. Arthur prodded the mattress nervously and then sat on it himself:  in  fact  he  had very  little to be nervous about, because all mattresses grown in the swamps of Squornshellous Zeta are very thoroughly killed  and dried  before  being  put  to service. Very few have ever come to life again.

 "Yeah yeah," said Zaphod. "Look, I think I'll just use a piece of paper."

 "They stopped," said Zaphod with a shrug.



. Ford glanced at him, puzzled

 "I can do that for you, sure," enthused  the  computer,  punching out  more  tickertape.  "I  can  even  work  out  you personality problems to ten decimal places if it will help."

 The word bulldozer wandered through his  mind  for  a  moment  in search of something to connect with.

 "Huh?" "Whilst we were in Improbability Drive."

 He came across this entry.

 Ford stared at it in astonishment.been miles into the got called had alien  existence all probability forgotten that several thing whale that against Another  surface was the above an suddenly planet a fact sperm .

 "I am Majikthise!" announced the older one.

 "Ugh!" he said. "There are mice on the table!"

 His eyes turned inside out.. His feet began to leak out of the top of his head

 The term Imperial is kept though it is now  an  anachronism.  The hereditary  Emperor  is  nearly  dead  and  has  been so for many centuries. In the last moments of his dying coma he was locked in a   statis  field  which  keeps  him  in  a  state  of  perpetual unchangingness. All his heirs are now long dead, and  this  means that without any drastic political upheaval, power has simply and effectively moved a rung or two down the ladder, and is now  seen to  be  vested  in a body which used to act simply as advisers to the Emperor -  an  elected  Governmental  assembly  headed  by  a President  elected  by that assembly. In fact it vests in no such place.

 "Huh?"

"

 "I think they're going to have a very good  try  at  applying  to us," said Ford.

 Zaphod stared at them wildly.

 "Now?"

 The aircar rocketed them at speeds in excess of R17  through  the steel  tunnels  that  lead  out onto the appalling surface of the planet which was now in the grip of  yet  another  drear  morning twilight. Ghastly grey lights congealed on the land.

 "Oh, Zaphod, this is a friend of mine, Arthur Dent," he said,  "I saved him when his planet blew up."

 "Hell, I'm relieved to hear you say that," said Ford.



. "It would have to be, wouldn't it?" said Ford

" he said, lamely. you startled me ... "I . er ....

 "Yeah?"

 "Yes. We're going to die."

". "You don't," said Ford patiently, "actually need him here

 "This is  Prostetnic  Vogon  Jeltz  of  the  Galactic  Hyperspace Planning  Council," the voice continued. "As you will no doubt be aware, the plans for development of the outlying regions  of  the Galaxy  require  the  building  of  a  hyperspatial express route through your star system, and regrettably your planet is  one  of those  scheduled  for  demolition. The process will take slightly less that two of your Earth minutes. Thank you.The in Magrathea planet in the "

 fact legendary.

 "What!"

 Another one followed and did the same thing only louder.

 "But aren't they ..."

 She flashed him a quick tight smile and  looked  away.Then  and moment but for else at  warmly looked was  - by time a this smiled   he more something back she looking.

 The barman cleared his throat. He heard himself say:

 "But what does it mean?" cried Arthur

 "What for?"."Late?" Arthur



 said . "What is it?" he said

 "... and then of course I've got this terrible pain  in  all  the diodes down my left hand side ..."

 "Is it?" asked the old man mildly. "I'm sorry, I'm a bit  out  of touch."



 when the first rays of the bright young Vogsol  sun  had shone across them that morning, it was as if the forces of evolution ad simply given up on them  there  and  then, had  turned  aside in disgust and written them off as an ugly and unfortunate mistake. Not that he ever went swimming of course.. His busy schedule would not allow it..Arthur of and  he end stripped  said,  "hold 

 "Here," these,"  a couple. "It was made out of the rib cage of a stegosaurus," explained the old  man as he pottered about fishing bits of wire out from under tottering piles of paper  and  drawing  instruments.

. There was a terrible ghastly silence

 The man looked  round  to  him  again  and  slightly  raised  his eyebrows.

 "What? Where?" cried Arthur twisting round.

 "Fun?" yelped Arthur. "Fun!" He quickly checked out of the window again that they were talking about the same thing.

 "I don't think I  can  stand  that  robot  much  longer  Zaphod," growled Trillian.

 Zaphod Beeblebrox was on his  way  from the  tiny  spaceport  on  Easter Island (the name was an entirely meaningless coincidence - in Galacticspeke,  easter  means  small flat  and  light  brown)  to  the  Heart of Gold island, which by another meaningless coincidence was called France. The boat zipped and skipped across the  sea,  the  sea  that  lay between  the  main  islands of the only archipelago of any useful size on the whole planet

 It wasn't infinity  in  fact. looks  uninteresting  and  Infinity   flat.  Looking  up  into  the  night sky is looking into infinity   -   distance   is   incomprehensible   and   therefore meaningless.  The  chamber  into  which  the  aircar  emerged was anything but infinite, it was just very very big, so that it gave the impression of infinity far better than infinity itself.

 Shivering, the four of them stood and looked at the ship.

 "And the Vogons came and destroyed it  five  minutes  before  the program was completed," added Arthur, not unbitterly.

" and so on. Listen ... Really big. You just won't believe how vastly  hugely mindboggingly big it is. I mean you may think it's a long way down the road to the chemist, but that's just  peanuts to space."Space," big

 "is it says, .  So  we programmed the computers to revive us when it was all over. "Fascinating trade," said the old man, and a  wistful  look  came into  his  eyes,  "doing  the coastlines was always my favourite.  so anyway,"  he said trying to find his thread again, "the recession came and we decided it would save us a lot of bother if  we  just slept  through  it. Used to have endless fun doing the little bits in fjords  ."

. She gave Arthur a pleasant smile  which  settled  on  him like  a ton of bricks and then turned her attention to the ship's controls again

 Prostetnic Vogon Jeltz heaved his unpleasant green body round the control   bridge.vaguely  irritable He   populated demolishing    planets felt  always. He wished that someone would  come and tell him that it was all wrong so that he could shout at them and feel better.that give  to  angry gave it   be  would  him as flopped the could seat   but only genuinely     his hope as  to complaining a    sort in He   on something control about, it  heavily  he .

 "Ah, but they hadn't paid for it you see, had they?"

 When one day an expedition was sent to  the  spatial  coordinates that  Voojagig had claimed for this planet they discovered only a small asteroid inhabited  by  a  solitary  old  man  who  claimed repeatedly  that nothing was true, though he was later discovered to be lying.

 "Might I make  an  observation  at  this  point?"  inquired  Deep Thought.

 "Yes!"



 "What's that, foregone conclusion then you reckon sir?" said  the barman. "Arsenal without a chance?"

 "Whose? Yours or mine?"

  Got  that, computer?". "It's just a recording," said Zaphod. "We keep going

 As with one voice they all went, "Yuch.in horror of "

 stared  Arthur  a wonderful  kind him about.  Ranged away  before  them,  at distances he could neither judge nor even guess  at,  were  a  series  of  curious  suspensions,   delicate traceries  of metal and light hung about shadowy spherical shapes that hung in the space.

 "And Ford drink," said. "It's vitally important that we talk  and drink. Now. We'll go to the pub in the village."

 "Computer ..." began Zaphod ... was  be way was special was  only any The the in Arthur house whom lived because 

 for and one it happened Dent, only that in he. He had lived in it for about three years, ever since he  had  moved  out  of  London  because  it made him nervous and irritable. He was about thirty as well,  dark  haired  and  never- quite at ease with himself.fact that him people about worry     ask to  The that  most   so was used looking to  worried the  he used what him.  He  worked  in local radio which he always used to tell his friends was a lot more  interesting  than they  probably  thought. It was, too - most of his friends worked in advertising.



"

. Zaphod hit him and he shut up

 "No government owns it," snapped the robot, "it's been stolen."

 Ford's eyes popped halfway out of their sockets. "Who  are  these guys?" he said.

 "Seven and a half million years ...!" cried in.

 "I don't care," said Arthur coldly. We've met, haven't we  Zaphod Beeblebrox - or should I say ... Phil?"

. A thought struck Arthur. He struggled to his feet

 All by itself. "The ship did."

 The wind stung Arthur's eyes and ears, and  the  stale  thin  air clasped his throat. However, the thing stung most was his mind.

.. thank you." snapped Zaphod, "great ..".. "Good 

 "So  once  you  do  know  what  the question actually is, you'll know what the answer means. "Exactly!" said Deep Thought."

 Magrathea itself disappeared and its memory soon passed into  the obscurity of legend.

 Zaphod leaped out of his seat

 "I hate that door," continued Marvin. "I'm not getting  you  down at all am I?"

 Several large desk panels slid open and banks of control consoles sprang  up  out of them, showering the crew with bits of expanded polystyrene packaging and balls of  rolled-up  cellophane:  these controls had never been used before.

....." He floundered too, but Arthur was ready again.

 er. "What did he say?" whispered Ford in astonishment

 "...slight pretty it's with  Zaphod a continued whistle low,".

. "What?" said Mr Prosser

 After a  fairly  shaky  start  to  the  day,  Arthur's  mind  was beginning  to  reassemble  itself from the shellshocked fragments the previous day had left him with. He had  found  a  Nutri-Matic machine  which  had provided him with a plastic cup filled with a liquid that was almost, but not quite, entirely unlike  tea.  The way it functioned was very interesting.the likely of down  signals button  it  taste the go taste Drink subject's the neural subject's and centres the examination see   buds,  of brain analysis spectroscopic made of was subject's    metabolism was an pressed When a but to experimental the to  instant pathways then to sent highly  detailed what the tiny. However, no one  knew  quite why  it  did  this  because  it  invariably delivered a cupful of liquid that was almost, but not quite, entirely unlike  tea.complaints  Sirius   Tau Nutri-Matic the by  Cybernetics three system The  whose  of  covers   planets  department the now  and Corporation first  the was    the in land masses designed  manufactured major Sirius  Star  all.

 "I mean, don't you have any inkling of the reasons for all this?" asked Ford.

 "Yeah?" he said.

 At that moment the bottom fell out of Arthur's mind.

 "But can you do it?" cried Loonquawl.

. "But .".

 Bypasses are devices which allow some people to drive from  point A  to  point B very fast whilst other people dash from point B to point A very fast. People  living  at  point  C,  being  a  point directly  in  between,  are often given to wonder what's so great about point A that so many people of point B are so keen  to  get there,  and  what's so great about point B that so many people of point A are so keen to get there. hell once often for people  just the  be wish  out all   they They to and .

 "Why?"



 Light poured out into the hatchways.at looked pint, his struggling Arthur, him third "What?"

.

 The very worst poetry of all  perished  along  with  its  creator Paula  Nancy Millstone Jennings of Greenbridge, Essex, England in the destruction of the planet Earth.



 "You don't need to."

. "Yeah, well I doubt that," said Zaphod

 "But look, you found the notice didn't you?"

 "Now," said Benji mouse, "to business

 "My God," complained Arthur, "you're  talking  about  a  positive mental  attitude  and you haven't even had your planet demolished today. I woke up this morning and thought I'd have a nice relaxed day,  do  a bit of reading, brush the dog ... It's now just after four in the afternoon and I'm already  thrown  out  of  an  alien spaceship six light years from the smoking remains of the Earth!" He spluttered and gurgled as the Vogon tightened his grip.

 She said, very calmly, "It's the same sector you originally picked me up in. Parts of the inside of her head screamed at other  parts  of  the inside  of her head."

. "If whatever  I'm supposed  to be looking for is here, I don't want it. He very nearly blasted hell out  of  an  aircar  that stood waiting for them a few yards away. a the harmless rushed He followed gun,   blasted Kill-O-Zap    " the accounting into computer grabbed  perfectly   corridor, by second out and . "Let's get shot out of this hole," said Zaphod

 As soon as a predetermined quantity had been consumed, the  final loser  would  have  to  perform  a  forfeit,  which  was  usually obscenely biological.

 "But hang on," pursued Ford, "there's music and art and things to tell you about yet! Arrrggghhh!"

 "Life," said Marvin dolefully, "loathe it or ignore it, you can't like it."

 This impression was heightened by the fact that the inner coastline of the  crescent consisted almost entirely of steep cliffs.. In fact it seemed to exist not so much as an island in its own right  as  simply  a means  of  defining  the  sweep  and  curve  of  a huge bay. From the top of the cliff the land sloped slowly down five  miles  to  the opposite shore



 "No, nor have I," said Arthur.

 "Emergency! Emergency!" blared the klaxons throughout  Ma\-gra\-thea. "Hos\-tile  ship  has  landed on planet. Armed intruders in section 8A. Defence stations, defence stations!"

 "And you're ready to give it to us?" urged Loonquawl. "I am.on and he "Can "

 we get ask the.

 "So are you going to come  quietly,"  shouted  one  of  the  cops again, "or are you going to let us blast you out?"



 "And then I'll do  it  again!"  yelled  Arthur.got on the  extra "I all I've the  and I said  jump gave of and will little  will the it,"  finished "And an I  bits,   ship speed  .

 Suddenly Arthur began to feel his apparently  non-existent  scalp begin  to  crawl as he found himself moving slowly but inexorably forward towards the console, but it was only a dramatic  zoom  on the part of whoever had made the recording he assumed.

 The boat sped on

 "I suppose you want to see the aliens now," he said

 "Understand that!" shouted Arthur

 "Well, even supposing it is ..

 The pink cubicle had winked out of  existence,  the  monkeys  had sunk away to a better dimension. It was rather smart.. Ford and Arthur found themselves in the embarkation area of the ship



 "He gatecrashed a party," persisted Arthur, trembling with anger, "a fancy dress party ..."

 In these enlightened days of course, no one believes  a  word  of it.

 The robot still sat there, completely inert.

 The Vogon raised a surprised eyebrow  that  effectively  obscured his nose and was therefore no bad thing.

"

 "Dunno," said Vroomfondel in an awed whisper, "think  our  brains must be too highly trained Majikthise."

. very carefully .. Drink .

 As the door closed behind them it became  apparent  that  it  did indeed    have    a    satisfied   sigh-like   quality   to   it. "Hummmmmmmyummmmmmm ah!" it said.

 It was because of  this  tiny  piece  of  information  that  Ford Prefect  was  not  now  a  whiff  of  hydrogen,  ozone and carbon monoxide.

. "That sounds perfectly reasonable," he said in a reassuring  tone of voice, wondering who he was trying to reassure

 "Ford," he said

.." "Whhhrrrr.  The  beer  you  had should have cushioned your system a bit. He opened his eyes.Dent

 Arthur " said. Trillian shrugged and hurried after him

 "Well," said Trillian in a  bright  compassionate  tone,  "here's something to occupy you and keep your mind off things."

 "Yeah," said Ford, "he was that guy we met when we were kids, the Arcturan  captain. He was a gas. He gave us conkers when you bust your way into his megafreighter. Said you were the  most  amazing kid he'd ever met."

  All  the planning  charts  and  demolition  orders have been on display in your local planning department on Alpha  Centauri  for  fifty  of your  Earth  years,  so  you've  had  plenty of time to lodge any formal complaint and it's far too late to  start  making  a  fuss about it now.". "There's no point in acting  all  surprised  about  it

 "Mr Dent," he said.

. "Oh.humming

 an the in of Ford airliner  voice "Please fire, only with carried one are which relax," stewardess said wing and pleasantly, is perfectly "you two on safe one like a."

 "Yeah? Worth interrupting a news bulletin about me for?"

 Good. Ooooh, it's getting quite strong.  And  hey,  what's  about this  whistling  roaring sound going past what I'm suddenly going to call my head? Perhaps I can call that ... wind! Is that a good name?  It'll do ... perhaps I can find a better name for it later when I've found out what it's for.  It  must  be  something  very important  because there certainly seems to be a hell of a lot of it. Hey! What's this thing? This ...yeah, let's a tail it call  -.it but can't can That can thrash Hey! find it's on later very seem I? to probably Wow! good out I much what really achieve for about great! feels  pretty . Now - have I built up any coherent picture of things yet?

. But the end never came, at least not then

 "Er ..."

 "`Oh dear,' says God, `I hadn't thought of  that,'  and  promptly vanished in a puff of logic.

 "At a wild guess, I'd say down here," said  Zaphod,  running  off down  to  the  right between a computer bank and the wall. As the others started after him he was brought up short by a  Kill-O-Zap energy  bolt  that cracked through the air inches in front of him and fried a small section of adjacent wall.

 "And I demand that I am Vroomfondel!" shouted the younger one.

 "Yes

 Ford leapt to the  controls  -  only  a  few  of  them  made  any immediate  sense  to  him  so he pulled those. The ship shook and screamed as its guidance rocked jets tried to push it every which way  simultaneously.  He  released half of them and the ship span round in a tight arc  and  headed  back  the  way  it  had  come, straight towards the oncoming missiles.



 to constant", against seven one  nine "Yes, a "two that's seventy-six two said to and hundred power hundred thousand and ."

 Deep in Marvin's thorax gears ground

 "Alright so I'm panicking, what else is there to do?"

"

 For instance, on the planet Earth, man had always assumed that he was more intelligent than dolphins because he had achieved  so  much - the wheel, New York, wars and so on - whilst all the dolphins had ever done was muck about in the water having a  good  time.

 And so the problem remained; lots of the people  were  mean,  and most of them were miserable, even the ones with digital watches.and  another he very -  kind the to 

 the gave told was Ford note barman keep change five-pound.then and at looked barman looked it at Ford  The. one suddenly experienced  shivered: didn't momentary He understand because had that on he ever  he a experienced . In moments  of  great  stress,  every life  form  that  exists  gives  out a tiny sublimal signal. This signal simply communicates an exact and almost pathetic sense  of how far that being is from the place of his birth. On Earth it is never possible to be further than  sixteen  thousand  miles  from your birthplace, which really isn't very far, so such signals are too minute to be noticed. Ford Prefect was at this  moment  under great  stress,  and  he was born 600 light years away in the near vicinity of Betelgeuse.

 "No, I was only fooling," said Ford, "we are going to  die  after all.this distance a is idea so miles whose still planet at  neat roughly watches of descended  utterly insignificant little think primitive amazingly life ape- pretty digital  Orbiting  million ninety-two  an are that blue.



".someone have  picked later

 Frankie maybe thought said: "Well, a "Here's might else up. How many roads must  a  man walk down?"

 "What!" shouted Ford.

 Please relax... You will be sent for soon.. to falling against and one  "Five."  she  said,  "four  to  one against  and  falling  .have   normality we we I normality, repeat  ."..  two  ...." She turned her microphone off - then turned it back on, with a slight  smile  and  continued:  "Anything  you still  can't  cope  with  is  therefore  your own problem.  three  to  one  .... probability factor of one to one 

 "Yes."

 "And shouting," added the guard.was time voice 

 distinctly the This the fanfare cold perfunctory,.

 "Oh good ." he whirred, in considerable astonishment.

. Marvin trudged on down the corridor, still moaning

 "Oh yes, well I managed to  transmit  a  new  entry  off  to  the editor. He had to trim it a bit, but it's still an improvement."

 The creature stirred in his sickly broiling vapour, and  at  that very  moment  the words I seem to be having tremendous difficulty with my lifestyle drifted across the conference table.

 "And can we also assume," said  Ford,  "that  he's  going  to  be staying here all day?"

 "And quickly please, the world's about to end

 "Er, no," he said.

  This should be emphasized because, as had already  been  revealed,  they  escape otherwise  completely unharmed and the deadly nuclear missiles do not eventually hit the ship. It was of course more or less at this moment that one of the crew sustained  a  nasty  bruise  to  the  upper  arm. The safety of the crew is absolutely assured.

 How did we get a lift then?"



 The simple truth is that interstellar distances will not fit into the human imagination.

 "Wow."

 Beneath it lay uncovered a huge starship, one hundred  and  fifty metres  long,  shaped  like a sleek running shoe, perfectly white and mindboggingly beautiful. At the heart of it,  unseen,  lay  a small  gold  box which carried within it the most brain-wretching device ever conceived, a device which made this  starship  unique in  the  history of the galaxy, a device after which the ship had been named - The Heart of Gold. "Wow", said Zaphod Beeblebrox to the Heart of Gold. There  wasn't much else he could say.

.".

 For a fleeting moment they become fashionable and I get a major award. "Where's the sense in that?" he said.". "None that I've  been  able to  make  out

 "Well?" said Ford.

 "Such subtlety ..." said Slartibartfast, "one has to admire it."

 Zaphod laughed.almost something,   about   so was clearly He childishly   very excited.

 "Yeah."

 "Though we may not be," said Vroomfondel waving a warning  finger at the programmers.

 The  last  ever  dolphin  message   was   misinterpreted   as   a surprisingly  sophisticated  attempt  to  do  a double-backwards- somersault through a hoop whilst whistling  the  "Star  Sprangled Banner", but in fact the message was this: So long and thanks for all the fish.

 "Which one?"

 Arthur blinked at it.

 "Is ..."

 An icy wind ripped into them, they hugged themselves  warmly  and stepped down the ramp on to the barren dust of Magrathea.

 "It hardly makes any difference at this stage," said  Ford,  "let them have their fun

 What do I mean by who am I?

 "Who said anything about panicking?"  snapped  Arthur. still "This  shock culture is  the  just. You wait till I've settled down into the  situation  and  found  my  bearings.  Then  I'll  start panicking."

 Arthur stared at it. The screen flashed and swirled and resolved into a page of print. Arthur grabbed hold of it and tried to stop his hands shaking

 "Er ..." said Arthur.

 Ford nodded.



 "People of Earth, your attention please," a voice  said,  and  it was   wonderful.   Wonderful   perfect  quadrophonic  sound  with distortion levels so low as to make a brave man weep.

 "Oh nothing, I'm sorry," said Arthur in embarrassment.  "Alright, where do we go?"

 The  fact  that  once  again man  completely misinterpreted  this   relationship was entirely according to these creatures' plans.

 He got a very strong impression that Zaphod hadn't the faintest idea why he was there at all. Ford glanced at him sharply.



 "Who are you?" said Lunkwill, rising angrily from his seat."What want?"

 do you Arthur  beer stared into.

 "Vogonity," Ford hissed at him.

 "Welcome," the voice said, "to the Starship Heart of Gold."

 "But can we trust him?" he said.he alright?" "And  whilst house said  away,  he's sneaky Mr Dent's knocking 

 no.

. highly looked God's a of which as rib Person   and  selling Things controversial is -  stegosaurus

  book, Who  gestured  also the Arthur chair if  lost made Care in wholly it philosophical blockbusters is a More Went Where Anyway?

 better the Home  than  more Some it  of to He Zero and only Wrong, than Mistakes out been Greatest   a  it looked   Colluphid's towards Celestial  successful  Omnibus, Fifty had do popular Not God cage  a Oolon Gravity, is trilogy Arthur this.

 They all hesitated

  Isn't  it  enough  to  see  that  a  garden is beautiful without having to believe that there are fairies at the bottom of it too?. All this Magrathea nonsense seemed  juvenile.the  some irritated fantasy for to on had scene  to Zaphod faintly him to that it It make him ludicrous. As Ford gazed at the spectacle of light  before  them  excitement burnt inside him, but only the excitement of seeing a strange new planet, it was enough for him to see it as  it  was

 "Hallmark," said Ford. "We had a look."

 "Yes." "Walk on through the rain ..." sang Eddie.

 Arthur said brightly: "Actually I quite liked it."

 I wonder if it will be friends with me?

"."Yes

 "Yes!  ..."

 It is also the story of a book, a book called The  Hitch  Hiker's Guide  to  the  Galaxy  -  not  an Earth book, never published on Earth, and until the terrible catastrophe occurred, never seen or heard of by any Earthman.

 "Stolen?"

 "How can you tell?" asked  Arthur.  "Have  you  got  some  exotic device for measuring the age of metal?"



 "Is there any tea on this spaceship?" he asked.

 In the corner, the  robot's  head  swung  up  sharply,  but  then wobbled  about imperceptibly.  It pulled itself up to its feet as if it was about five pounds heavier that  it  actually  was,  and made  what  an  outside  observer would have thought was a heroic effort to cross the room. It stopped in  front  of  Trillian  and seemed to stare through her left shoulder.

 "What?"

 "Hey this is terrific!" he said

 "Oh!" he said, with sudden realization. "Oh, I'm sorry, I  wasn't quite prepared for ..."

 "But the plans were on display ..."

 Their names were Lunkwill and Fook.

 "The Dentrassi?" whispered Arthur.

 Someone from the dead planet was talking to them.

". Ah! Look, I was right. It's  a lot of `the Universe can be yours' stuff

 Only one word registered with Arthur